Our meeting of the Dublin Unified
School District Board of Trustees.
We will start with a roll call.
Trustee Spec here.
Uh, trustee Blackman has not yet arrived
and neither has trustee chair, vice President Quo here.
President Pelham here.
We Have a quorum. Thank you.
Alrighty. Our first item will be
the adoption of the agenda.
Are there any changes from staff?
No changes. Anything, uh, trustee would like
to pull or anything? I'll take a motion.
I'll move. We adopt the agenda. I'll second.
Uh, you're not usually here, but Trustee Pei. Aye.
Everyone else? Aye. Aye. Aye. Carries unanimously.
Um, and then we will do the Pledge of Allegiance.
So we could have, um, our student trustee,
everyone could remove your hats.
And the flag is right behind me here.
I pledge allegiance to the flag
of the United States of America
and to the Republic for which it stands.
One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty
and justice for all.
Alright, thank you.
And then, if you wouldn't mind reading
our district mission statement?
Mission statement.
Dublin Unified School District will educate every student
to become a lifelong learner by providing a safe
and supportive environment
that fosters collective responsibility
for each student's success.
All righty, thank you. And just note
that Trustee Blackman has arrived
to join us for the rest of the meeting.
Um, and first of all, we are gonna start out
with some recognition, should I think most of
what our audience is here for tonight.
As much as you enjoy board policies,
I'm sure you're here for this
President Pelham.
I'm so excited, uh, to recognize our Dublin little league,
uh, softball teams, our 10 and under, and our 12 and under.
Uh, rarely do we have this much, uh, happiness
and excitement during a board meeting.
Um, and so, so noted. And thank you all for being here.
Uh, I think we all got a chance to, uh, watch, uh,
two games on ESPN to see the 12
and under team, uh, perform outstandingly.
Um, and, uh,
what's also amazing is when you think about both, uh, teams,
uh, the majority of the players all attend our schools at
Wells for the 12.
And under 11 of the 12, uh, players attend Wells.
And we have an amazing gal from, um, Livermore
that participates.
And then we have, uh, uh, students represented from several
of our elementary schools, uh, including, uh, Dublin,
l Murray, John Green, and f Fredrickson.
So, uh, Dr. Campbell, would you please, uh,
introduce the teams and bring up the coaches and
Celebrate? Yeah, it, it is
my pleasure. I'd like to have the 10
and under coaches come on up, please.
So I get the pleasure of introducing the,
the students or, uh, the players.
I'm gonna give to the coaches.
And so they can actually give the certificate
to the players, uh, first player.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna introduce,
introduce the tens first.
We'll get the certificates.
We'll come up, we'll take the picture. And then
after the pictures, then you guys go back to the audience
and then we will introduce the, uh, the 12.
All right. First player, Amber Ray Goodman, come on up.
Avery Toler.
Cameron Dikes.
Emma Hauser.
Khalia Lorenzo,
Callie Delgado,
Kira Patel, Lana
aorn, Alec Con, excuse me, Leoni you.
Maddie Desalt.
Stephanie Ortega,
Navia Patel.
And then finally, Mariah Shaw.
I'd like to invite the head coach, Mr.
Jimmy Dikes, come up, say a few words.
Good evening. Uh, on behalf of, uh, the 10 U team,
as a Dublin Unified School District alum
and a Dublin Little League alum, uh, I want to thank, uh,
the school board and, uh, the community for all the support.
The summer. It was quite remark, remarkable
with these roles pulled off, uh, multiple practices a week,
five, six days a week, multiple games in a day,
and, uh, you know, 90, a hundred degree heat.
Um, so we want to thank you guys for, uh, the recognition.
Thank you.
Okay, thank you. 10 and under.
Now I'd like to introduce the 12 and under team
state champions.
The regional, much of the regional championship game was one
game away from the World Series
and multiple appearances on ESPN.
All right, uh,
and the coaches will have an opportunity to speak
after Lizzie McCort
Court.
Kira Light, Bailey,
Lowell, Zoe,
Monroe,
Alana, you, Kristen
Christian Carr, Sophia
DeLeon, Chloe Slat,
Genevieve Duncalf,
Emily Schafer,
Myla Khi.
And finally, Alana Ha.
I'd like to invite Coach Schafer
to the podium to say a few words.
Noah, I thank you everybody for having us here.
This is really, really special.
Um, especially the special assembly
that wells put on for our girls.
That was exceptional.
So we are very, very grateful for that.
These girls, all summer long, they rep
represented themselves, their team, their family, the city
of Dublin and Dublin Little League in the best way possible.
So all of us coaches are extremely proud of these girls
for what they accomplished.
Um, so we are very, very proud. So thank you very much.
Oh, oh, um, oh. Can we
Just have one parent that has a special message that, uh,
miss Vanessa KeHE would like to share?
Good evening. My name is Vanessa KeHE
and my daughter Mela is part
of this amazing group of young women.
I'm here because I received some special mail from
Washington DC for this team.
So each of you received an award from the United States
Congress, which states Certificate
of Special Congressional Recognition presented to each
of you Dublin Little League twelves in celebration
of winning the California State Championship
and becoming runners up in the Western region United States.
I applaud your commitment and dedication to your sport
and your teammates signed us Congressman Eric Swalwell.
So I will distribute these after the meeting.
But for the girls who may not know,
Congressman Swalwell is a proud graduate of Dublin High
and a very proud graduate of Well's Middle School.
So he was very quick to send these on,
and congratulations to you.
Thank you very much.
We also have Well's Principal in the audience who?
Kanye Gs.
All right. Congrats everybody.
And thank you for, for representing Dublin so well.
Yes.
Alright. Thank you. That's okay.
Awesome. Thank you.
All righty.
Well, we boy, is not
Well. We still would like
to hear from our student representative
for his student board member report.
You go ahead. Okay.
So, as the school year has started,
many events have already already kicked off
and been in the, in the process
of planning at Emerald High School.
The grand opening celebration
of the new Arrow launch took place on Saturday, August 17th.
From 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM I got
to personally attend the event, which featured a variety
of activities, including a time capsule ceremony,
which was hosted by the Dublin Historical Society,
cheer team performances, and a hip hop dance team.
Showcase visitors enjoyed free face painting,
hana art games, balloon animals, and a range of food trucks.
And we vendors, Emerald also had its back
to school night on August 20th, which
provided a wonderful opportunity for parents
and guardians to visit their students' classrooms,
meet their teachers, and learn about course expectations.
Doing all of this while following their student schedules,
period by period classes at Valley
High School are going great.
They started the year with an ice cream social event
sponsored by their leadership class.
This year, students are taking a culinary class
and have started college by taking a Las
Positas class once a week.
Students who are in good standing with academics
and attendance will be going to the
A'S baseball game next Thursday.
Dublin High School seniors hiked up Number Hill
for their Senior Sunrise event on Wednesday,
August 21st at 5:00 AM It was a memorable experience filled
with spirit and excitement of beginning their final year.
That same morning, Dublin High School had its Back
to School rally, which I got to be the mc of,
and had an amazing time.
The theme was Olympics
and there was a huge pride coming from all the
classes throughout all the games.
Admin also had a chance
to talk more about their CARES policy,
which has been highly emphasized.
This year, from August 16th to August 18th,
I attended the National Student Board Member Association
Start Conference, which was held online.
I had the opportunity to collaborate
with student board members from across the nation,
gaining hands-on experience on, in developing
and presenting a board of educ Board
of Education policy proposal.
Through council sessions, the conference
provided invaluable training on essential aspects
of broad service, ensuring I'm
well prepared for my role this term.
And throughout high school,
many students have experienced significant stress
or anxiety marked by constant worry due to uncertainty about
how specific events in their academic careers might impact
their college admission outcomes.
To address this, I'm working on a mission
to interview regional college admissions officers asking
detailed questions on how admissions committees interpret
grade trends, the impact of disciplinary actions,
and the significance of personal statements,
and the additional information section
in the application process.
These interviews will be recorded
and shared with high school student bodies aiming
to clarify concerns and reduce confusion.
Lastly, most fall sports have already started at all the
high schools, and everyone is eager
to begin attending the games.
Thank you.
All right. Thank you. We are off
to a good start in all of our schools.
Um, and next we hear, um, are from DTA.
Are they, I don't see anyone here. They're not online.
Um, and CSCA mentioned they do not have a statement tonight.
I just wanna make sure DTA didn't pop on. Right.
Okay. Then we're gonna keep moving.
Next is a facilities project update.
Yeah. So our Assistant Superintendent
of Facilities planning
and construction, Thomas Moore is here.
Um, along with our CBO Chris Hobbs.
We wanna highlight, uh, the six, uh,
major projects underway, updates you on the timeliness, uh,
and timelines of completion, uh, remaining budgets there.
And then the actual, uh, available unaccounted, uh,
not unaccounted, excuse me, um, uh, funding
that's in our bond program that has not been budgeted.
Um, uh, and so they're both here tonight
to discuss, uh, both those topics.
Uh, good evening, uh, president, uh, Pelham, uh,
superintendent Funk, members of the Board of Trustees.
Uh, today I'd like to update our, our facilities projects.
And, uh, we, we will start with, uh, where we
wound up last October,
which was a implementation plan three, a re revision three,
which the board adopted on 10 10 23.
This shows you the list of the projects
that we're working on, or that are part of the bond program.
Part of the funding, it shows a remaining,
a total remaining funds
of $1,182,238.
That's, uh, that's unallocated funds.
We'll start with Murray of phase one
and phase two at Murray.
Uh, right now we're working on, uh, NPR
and administration building.
Phase one is complete.
We had four new kindergarten,
28 elementary school classrooms, C
and D building utility connections,
interior exterior finishes.
Phase two is underway.
It's the NPR Admin building with a completion this spring,
uh, demolition of the V building that was, uh,
that was already completed.
We have a new play field, which we have a DSA approval for.
So we'll be getting started, uh, right away on that.
And we're also gonna be remodeling the existing NPR
to a library, uh, play structure
and installation of field restrooms.
Those will come as a separate phase
after the NPR admin building is completed.
Um, right now we've got, uh,
$64,300,000 allocated.
We've encumbered
$58,581,041.
We've encumbered. Um,
that means we've made commitment to spend.
And, uh, our remainder is
5,718,959.
That is there to complete the, uh, the, uh, phase two items
that are not under contract right at the moment.
Uh, Dublin Elementary School is our next project.
We have, uh, project update.
We have building BA second grade
that's in progress building EA three classroom wing in
progress, uh, on building E
and building L We're putting in gypsum board, interior pro
and interior finishes, exteriors complete on building L.
We have substantial completion dates of,
or this fall on all those projects.
So we'll be done with all of those things this fall.
Phase two is currently in design.
Um, so we don't have a firm date on when
that will be completed.
Um, but we do are,
we we're remodeling the A Wings sixth first grade
classrooms, five S-D-C-T-K,
and kindergarten classrooms in one flex room.
We're constructing two new TK classrooms,
or rework, uh, the TK
and STC play structure remodel of the existing MPR removal
of the existing kitchen
and reconfiguration of two rooms
to support music and science.
We're upgrading the main electrical service
and we're renovating the TKK parking lot and drop off area.
The budget information
for this project is we had a
$47,700,000 allocated.
There's
$32,655,247 encumbered.
That leaves a, a, uh, a remainder
of 15,044,753, which will be used
to complete the phase two portion of the project.
Our next project that I'd like
to update is Emerald High School, phase two.
That's the second classroom tower, the VAPA extension,
and a number of outbuildings, uh, for maintenance.
And, uh, sports, though, we're building that right now.
Uh, the second academic tower,
the structural steel is complete.
Actually, we're a little farther along.
We did, there's been a lot
of work done there in the last week and a half.
Um, the athletic bleachers and press, press box is complete.
I think our first activity there,
our first game is tomorrow, I believe tomorrow night,
the first football game at Enrolled High School.
Yeah, 6:00 PM Yeah. So I'll, I'll be there.
Um, we're on track to complete phase two this spring,
so we're moving right along.
Uh, we're on schedule actually right now.
We're in front of the schedule, uh, by like three weeks.
Uh, but, you know, things happen toward the end.
So we're really looking at, uh, completion in probably April
of 2025, more than enough time to get ready
for the following school year.
So we're feeling really good about that. There were nine.
There was $91 million,
$132,581 allocated for this project.
Out of that, we have 77,986,850
encumbered with a remainder of about 13,000,145,
uh, thousand $731 right now.
That's uncommitted in this project.
Uh, the next, uh, project I'd like
to update you on is the Emerald High School, phase three,
Catherine C quote, performing arts center.
We, uh, we have, um, it's under design right now.
It's a lease leaseback project.
Uh, we're probably around 70% in the design right now.
We should be, uh,
complete sometime in November for the design.
At that point, we'll do an exercise where we'll work
with our contractor BHM to do a, uh, assessment of the cost
and to look at value engineering
or, um, constructability review at that time.
So that'll happen in November,
and we hope to submit to DSA in November.
Uh, we also are working on the solar structures as,
so solar was planned for the, the site
as part of phase two.
We moved that to phase three. That was a DSA concern.
Phase two did not require solar. Phase three does.
So we moved that work to phase three so
that we could have a single submittal to DSA
that would encompass all that work.
Um, you know, we're using, we have user feedback going on.
There's a user group we're meeting at least
every, every two weeks.
Uh, we do an executive meeting every week on the theater.
So we're, things are moving right along.
We're on track to break ground in the spring
of 2020 in spring of 25.
Uh, that could wound up being early summer.
Right now, we're, you know,
trying to work through the schedule.
It all depends upon how quickly we can get through the DSA.
So, but we're on, we're on track.
Um, right now we have 38,315,000,
uh, $672 allocated.
Encumbered is only 2,526,506.
That's for architectural and, uh, pre-construction services.
So the remainder, the 35,789,166
are project costs that have yet to be, uh, uh, allocated,
or they're allocated, but they're yet to be encumbered.
So we do not have contracts for that amount,
but we will,
uh, another project that we're working on is, uh,
air conditioning systems at DHS Fallon, uh, middle school
and Wells Middle School, four gyms all together.
Um, we're gonna, we'll be completing Fallon this January.
Uh, wells and DHS will be completed in November.
Um, the budget info on that was $6,100,000 was allocated.
Right now we have 4,446,138 encumbered
with, you know, our main contracts in place.
The materials ordered.
So there's a
$1,653,862 remainder.
Uh, we'll, you know, have a pretty good idea of
what the actual remainder on this project will be.
Uh, sometime in Jan, it'll be completed in January.
So we'll have accurate numbers in January.
And, um, Mr. Moore, the somewhat, um, delay on the Fallon,
um, actually on all three of these is simply
because of the delay in receiving the units from
Overseas. Yes. The,
the, the, the air conditioning units themselves
are not your average or your normal equipment.
They fit on the rooftop.
They had certain parameters where they had to meet
for weight and size and power.
So they were custom ordered and custom made.
Um, some of them had really long lead times.
Uh, it seems like air conditioning equipment
and electrical gear has not recovered from pandemic,
um, supply chain issues, we're still having them.
A lot of that is worldwide.
Most of these companies operate internationally,
so they manufacture in other countries.
They operate in, in hundreds of countries,
manufacturing dozens of countries.
So, but what, what, what, we're there now.
We have, uh, we have a good schedule
and, uh, we're, we're, we, we've been assured that, uh,
the equipment will be here in time
to finish by these states.
Oops. Oh, Cottonwood Creek Gym.
Um, if you've been out to Cottonwood Creek gym,
it looks like it's almost done.
I mean, we look at it, we go, wow.
Look at all the work that's been done in the, in the last,
uh, year or so.
Uh, completion will be this October.
So we indeed are almost done.
We'll be putting in dry, uh, we'll be installing the, uh,
hardwood flooring, which is pretty much the last thing
that needs to be done, uh, sometime next month.
Um, and we should be done by October.
Uh, the budget information, we, we, we were,
we allocated $15,585,145 to this.
We've encumbered so far, 13,389,548
with a
$2,195,597 remainder.
Like I said, that's not guaranteed to be at the end
of the project, but right now,
this is what we're looking at.
It looks really good. So we're happy about that.
Shamrock Hills, uh, TK eight School.
So increment one, the civil package, uh, has gone
through DSA back check and been approved.
So we'll be starting, uh, actual moving dirt
around sometime next month.
Um, increment two, the structures have been submitted
to DSA, but we're waiting for approval.
Uh, the neighborhood notices have been posted in July
for upcoming activities.
And right now we're on track to, to, uh, break ground.
Um, like I said, this fall, like in about a month, uh,
budget information,
we've got a
a hundred and two million five hundred sixty six thousand two hundred thirteen thousand dollars
allocated.
We've only encumbered 4,873,463,
and we have a 97,690
or $97,692,750 remainder.
That is for the bulk of the construction,
which we still have not allocated or written a contract.
We'll be coming to the board soon for the, um, for the, uh,
incremental, uh, uh, uh, maximum guaranteed price.
Uh, that will be, we should be coming to the board for that.
Within the next month, we'll be ready to break.
And after that's approved, they'll break their break ground.
Right now, they're in the process of getting bids
and securing all their bid packages
and submitting a final, uh, GMP to us
so we can bring it to the board for approval.
So, any questions on the current projects?
Trustee Blackman and then Trustee Speck.
Thank you very much for the presentation, for the update.
It's great to see all the work that's been done and,
and just the quality of the projects.
I had a question. I'm glad we have the Shamrock Hills.
One last. So, um, I noticed in Shamrock Hills that
that's an image, granted, it's just an artist conception.
Yes. That's the NPR and we have basketball hoops in it.
So I just wanna be certain that I understand
that even though we're building a gymnasium, I thought for
that project, we are also building the NPR
to accommodate sports.
I just wanna make sure I Yes, that's correct.
And is that because the program, we,
because one of the reasons why we were building a gym at
Cottonwood Creek is so that we didn't have to tax the NPR
with PE and other requirements.
So I just wanna make sure I understand.
Is this something that is just, is there a programmed use?
I'm, I'm just trying to understand why we put
Well, it, it's, the, it in there is a TK through eight,
which is the same as Cottonwood Creek.
Yes. So we have an NPR, and,
and they have, they have, you know, it's a, it's,
it's an NPR, it's, it's a elementary school type NPR.
It's a little larger because we're gonna accommodate middle
school students for lunch also.
But the 300 or so middle school students
that we have there are gonna be utilizing
that gym just like we would at Cottonwood.
So are you asking why do we use this image?
No, it was more a question,
because I know in cases
where we have like elementary school spaces,
or at least at like Cottonwood
until they have their gymnasium, they're using their NPR as
that PE space and their NPR use for dining.
Right. This Will all be built at the same time.
Okay. I just was curious.
'cause it looks like the old Cottonwood Creek one,
and that's why I thought we built the gymnasium,
so we didn't have to do PE in this.
This is just something to illustrate a
concept. That's all. It's
Not. Sorry. Thank you. That
really helps.
Um, there was a couple other questions that I had.
Was, um, in the remainder number for the theater, I presume
that's just whenever you mention remainder,
that's just monies that haven't been, um, contracted out yet
for each of the projects?
Yes. We don't have a, we, we do not have A-A-A-A-A, uh,
we haven't even submitted to DSA yet,
so there is no construction contract.
So you'll, we'll come back with A GMP for that.
Once that project is released from DSA, we'll come
to the board with the GMP.
Thank you. And then the one last question.
I know you said you had a lot, little bit
of wiggle room time-wise for Emerald High School, um,
with this new tower phase, which sounds great.
I appreciate hearing that given what occurred
with the weather during the winter seasons a while ago.
Yeah. Um, the one question I had though was
that we do have students on the campus right now,
and there are construction activities
that are occurring in parallel
to having those students present.
So has there been any discussion given the recent events in
the last day or so of actually trying to work
with a contractor to basically maybe schedule things
and activities that are being done on the site
that don't necessarily hamper
or affect students while they're in the class?
I'll say this carefully as I can
without bringing it. Why? Yeah.
Well, we're working both ways with that.
So we're, we're working with Francis to try
to minimize any disruption to the students.
And Francis is working with BHM to try
to minimize any destruct any, any disruption
of the contracting.
And I think we've done a pretty good job so far.
So we're working very closely together, um, in order to try
to make sure that things go smoothly.
I mean, there, there's always little mishaps
and things that happen here and there,
but BHM has been very responsive as far as locking things,
putting up gates, coordinating things off,
setting up pathways and walkways, marking 'em,
and making sure that they're safe communicating
with Francis here, you know, here's, here's
how we navigate these obstructions.
So I think we're doing a really good job there.
Um, and, um, both BHM
and Francis are working very closely together
to minimize any kind of disruption at all.
Um, I know we're supposed to be asking questions,
but if it's okay as a follow-up to just share that
beyond just the logistics of those sort
of managing a site under construction,
if some consideration could be given
to things you don't necessarily think about
on a project schedule.
For example, tar being poured on a roof and the smell of it.
Yeah. That now that that activity is gonna,
it has about a three week duration, so it's kind of hard to,
I mean, if it was a weekend, we'd arrange
to have it done on a weekend,
or if there was a, you know, a couple days off
and we could accomplish it in a couple
days, we would do that.
But it's a three week duration to build
that roof up and to finish it.
And we need to do that before it starts raining.
So this is a critical path item, so we need to do it now.
And we are doing it now,
and we're making a com accommodations at the school to try
to minimize the smell.
Uh, but that's really all we can do.
We don't have a choice right now to reschedule that
or try to work it around the school schedule.
Okay. Um, uh, yeah, I have a few questions.
Um, first off, thank you.
Um, and it's great to see some of, so many
of these under budget, um, or tracking that way.
I know that they're not done, but, um, that's a great sign.
Um, could we go back up to the Murray slide?
I think slide three. Um, it talks about the, um, remodel
of the existing NPR to a library,
the play structure and the installation.
And it says substantial completion fall.
What, what exactly do you mean by substantial?
What does that mean? Something's left
out, or One of those is
Well, right now we, we, you know, we,
that's just a construction term.
We use substantial completion. Okay.
Um, there may be some things left over that needs to happen
after that, like some fencing or something like that.
Okay. I'm not prepared
to say yes or no yet. Sure. This is a year
Out. Okay.
And since this is a whole over a year away Yeah.
Um, we're kind of hedging our bets on that, but we got it.
We plan on having it finished in the fall.
So when we say fall, do we, do you expect them
to come back to school with it completed?
I, I hope so. Okay. So that is a potential that Yeah, well,
At least mostly complete.
Okay. So, I mean, we're hoping they are able to use
Things like use the library Exactly.
Yeah. Use the play field, that kind of thing. Right. Yeah.
Okay. That's what the substantial completion means.
They're able to use it. Okay.
Yeah. Okay. But might still have a
few little things here and there.
Okay, great. Um, on Dublin l um,
so the first part talks about the project status on phase
one, um,
but it doesn't talk about the lunch pavilion, which I,
I fully understand is very dependent on these things being
completed so that the admin can move into their spots so
that you can then, um, demo the admin building.
But what, what's the timeline on that demo
of the admin building and lunch pavilion?
Like, where does that fit into the timing?
Uh, the demo of the admin building.
The current admin building. Right.
Because that's where the lunch pavilion will be going.
Um, well, it'll have to be,
I mean, it'll be after this fall.
Correct. And then they'll arrange for it, you know,
I don't have the exact date they're gonna do the demo,
but it'll be sometime between this fall and next summer.
Okay. That they'll demo that. Sure.
Okay. I, I would love to understand rough timeline
of when we think the lunch pavilion.
I assume we have some sort of timing projection,
so I just didn't see that in here. But if I could get
That, it would be, it would be toward the
end of the project.
Okay. But I would appreciate getting that detail if
that could be followed up with me. Yeah. Thank
You. Definitely lunch pavilion.
Yes. Yeah. For the completion
of the phase one part of Lin L.
Um, and then my last question was on
Emerald, you talked about the solar.
Where will the solar be in Emerald? Will it be on the roofs?
Will it be in the parking lot?
The solar's gonna be in the
north parking lot.
Okay. So not on any of the roofs.
It'll all be parking lot.
Uh, it'll all be in the parking lot. Okay.
At, at one point we thought we might put some on the roof
of the theater, but we found out that
that wasn't needed in order to meet our, uh, our required,
uh, you know, kilowatt hours.
Okay. And so North, the one along Central.
Got it. Well, yes. So I'll be along central.
That parking area. Mm-Hmm. Not the one by Dublin. Correct.
Okay. Okay. That's all my questions. Thank you.
Anything else? No, thank you. I really appreciate it.
It's really helpful to get all these things
and it's really nice to see everything kind of coming
to fruition and, um, moving along.
And now we can hear all the money too.
And so far we're within budget, which is always a good sign.
Thank you. Thank you.
Um, uh, Mr. Hobbs will talk about some money.
'cause I, I know he, that's his favorite thing. Mine too.
But we're, we're a little bit different on this one.
I spend it and he gets it. There you go. Yeah. Thank you.
Good evening, president Pellum, trustee,
superintendent, funk.
Um, so last year in September, we gave you an update on
what additional resources would be available
because of developer fees coming in, um, interest
that was being earned on money that we had on deposit
with the county treasurer.
Um, we're gonna make that an annual thing just
so we have a clear picture of
what resources are available going forward.
So since we made that report last September, we've earned,
uh, brought in about $3.2 million worth
of new developer fees, um, that can be now released
to use towards, um, either existing
or new projects in the district.
In addition to that, um,
interest rates of course have been a little high.
And so the treasurer has actually been paying out a little
better on our, uh, the bond dollars
that are on deposit right now.
And so that accumulated across the bond.
The developer fees, um, comes out
to a little over $6.1 million.
And so that means, um, as Thomas showed at the start
of the presentation, they had,
you have about $1.1 million worth of funds
that were not yet allocated.
We can add to that almost, uh, 9.4 million, um,
that can be allocated towards projects, uh, moving forward.
That's the left column. That's money we have today.
It's sitting in the treasury.
We could spend it tomorrow if the board so chose
on the future side.
Um, this is very much more speculative.
And so we want to give you a sense, though, of
what might be possible in the future based on projects
that we've already done, based on the potential
of a state bond passing in November.
Um, and to give you a really great example of just
how fluid this can be, um,
I'm already gonna break the very first item.
Um, under Frederickson reconstruction, we had applied
for $3.1 million late this afternoon.
We actually learned that that application was
rejected by OPFC.
Um, and so we will not be getting that $3.1 million.
We will be resubmitting an application.
It'll be for a smaller amount, probably around 1.5,
1.6 million.
Unfortunately, that's gonna move us to the bottom
of the list because that's just the way OPSC works.
They reject your application
and if you try again,
you just go straight to the bottom of the list.
So while I had noted that
that 3.1 million would've been within the current Prop 51
money that was actually available, um, I think it's safe
to assume that we are no longer gonna be getting any more
Prop 51 money.
The good news is the legislature did put Proposition
two on the ballot for November.
That's a $10 billion.
Um, school finance bond, about eight
and a half billion of that will be used for K 12 schools.
The other one and a half billion for community colleges.
If that passes, then those dollars would be available
to fund new construction
and modernization projects at
school districts across the state.
Just to give you a sense of scale,
prop 51 was a $9 billion bond.
So this is a little bit higher than that. Uh, prop 51 bond.
And that obviously did a lot for us as well
as other DI districts across the state.
We have already applied based on phase one
of Emerald High School for $54.7 million worth of, uh,
refunds from, from the state on that project.
Now, the fact that we applied for 54.7 doesn't mean that's
what we're going to get, but that is kind
of the high water potential of what, uh,
we might be entitled to.
Um, at the end of the day, OPSC gets to make that call as to
how much they're gonna fund us.
Um, I know everybody's gonna wanna know when will
we see any money from that?
And the answer is, I have no idea.
Uh, the first thing that has to happen is the bond has
to pass in November.
Um, good news, this state has a pretty good record
passing school bonds.
About 74% of them pass.
So we're in a pretty good place to assume that
that bond may pass.
Once it passes, then we will, the state will have
to sell those bonds and they will then fund projects in the
order in which they were approved as money is available.
So if they've got a billion dollars worth
of approved projects
and they sell a first round of 700 million in bonds,
then 300 million of those projects are going to wait
until the next set
of bonds are sold at some point in the future.
Just like us, the state obviously has a limit on
how much they can actually sell.
They can't just dump $10 billion worth
of bonds onto the market all at once.
Um, so 54.7 million potential in the future.
Um, obviously as other projects get completed,
we'll be continuing to submit, um,
applications for those as well.
But that's kind of the big ticket one right now.
The other thing that's obviously on the horizon is we have
an agreement, uh, with what was SCS is now Land C Homes.
That's a $19 million mitigation
agreement with that developer.
I'm sure we've all driven by, um,
that property over in Tassajara
and seen lots of big equipment moving dirt around.
And so, um, we're looking forward to them starting
to pull their purse permits
because that will set the,
start the clock on when they will be, um, paying
to the district that $19 million
that the lowest under their,
um, existing mitigation agreement.
So that is money that will be coming in the clock starts,
like I said, when they pull their first residential permits,
again, you've seen groundwork.
That's not the residential permits yet. That'll come.
If we were to get all of that,
and I already told you we're not,
because we're not getting that whole 3.1 for sure.
Um, we'd be looking at a potential
of another $76 million in change, um, moving forward.
So when we take though that $9 million
that we do have in the bank today,
that's real money really here right now.
Um, and add that back in, you can see that right now we,
the, the board has about $10.5 million worth of funds
that are not currently allocated
to any projects in the facilities, uh, portfolio.
With that, I'm happy to answer any questions you might have.
Trustee Blackman.
So, uh, you mentioned the new November ballot
or facilities, but the details of that ballot
actually weigh, um, in favor
of much smaller districts receiving funding
before larger districts
and districts that seem to have well-funded
or higher net worth for all it's worth.
Um, how do you see us applying for funds now?
Presumably the 54.7 million that we're applying for Emerald
comes out of some future state money
that doesn't exist right now,
but let's be realistic, if this bond passes,
what's the chance of Dublin receiving any money at all given
the way that this bond is being structured?
I have no way to calculate an answer to that.
Have we had any discussions with any of the members
who wrote the bond language so that we can understand
if districts like our own,
who are under extreme growth pressure
and had to pay for all these fi funds for facilities,
if there'll be any leeway for those that had growth issues?
Or is it simply going
to be putting all the smaller districts
ahead of the larger ones?
I have not had those conversations.
Okay. I just, it would be great if we could find out a
little bit more because this timeline
for when it may come, maybe never.
Thank you.
We can certainly reach out to some
of our partners in the Coalition for Adequate School Housing
to see if they've got a take on this that might be helpful
and informative for that.
Any other questions? You, you answered mine, which was,
would any of the other projects go, you know, making a,
would be applying for
reimbursement for any of the other projects?
Um, but I think that would be further along the line.
So we really can't count on any
of those dollars at this point in time.
Um, and this is just an information item,
correct? Because I think,
Yeah, so regarding the remaining
or the money in the bank, just over $10 million, uh,
in September, staff will be bringing back a recommendation.
Um, the first thing that we need to address,
address is the fact
that Emerald High School does not have a
softball or baseball field.
Um, I have met with the president of, uh,
Dublin Little League to talk to them about
accessing some of their time.
And I have a meeting with the city tomorrow,
uh, with a proposal.
Um, and so, um, really the goal is gonna be that we,
um, upgrade some of the fields at Emerald Glen Park
that the, uh, district would, uh,
take on if we're guaranteed, uh, time.
And if that does not happen, uh, we can't get
that guarantee, then we will be looking at updating the two
fields, uh, at Dublin High so that we can stack all of the
softball and baseball games, uh,
that can be played into the evening time.
So, uh, we're doing a study on that also.
So that should come hopefully, if not the first,
but definitely the second board meeting in September.
Jesse Buckman, I ask a follow up question.
How much does it cost to build a, as you said,
a softball field or build a baseball diamond
that we would need to support an Emerald team?
How much does that cost in terms of construction and field?
Like if we had to purchase land, what would that cost be?
So, I, I'm not quite sure, uh, let me answer it this way.
Uh, we will have estimates for what it'll cost
to remodel the fields at Dublin High,
and we will have an estimate of what it would get take
to get, uh, the two fields at Emerald Glen ready to go.
Um, but to build a brand new stadium that is, doesn't exist.
I, I don't have that cost soon,
and we won't be looking at doing that.
Uh, I know I would like to see what that number is
for comparison is to why we're putting
so much money into a city facility if we can negotiate
with some other location to basically provide
that site for us.
If that means that we would purchase the land,
whether it's from a new developer, I don't know.
But it gives us something to look at in terms of
what we're investing in the city versus
what we could own on our own.
And I think it's a worthwhile number to have at the meeting.
So, um, if, if the majority
of the board would be interested in that,
that would definitely slow things down.
Um, uh, as I said,
we will present our proposal in September.
We have to keep in mind, uh, that this spring, uh,
Emerald will be, um, having one softball team
and one baseball team,
but the following year they will have two teams each a
varsity and a freshman, uh, team.
Uh, and so the timeline to make decisions really have
to be made in the fall so that by the end
of this school year, if we're doing work,
that work will be ready for the next spring.
Uh, so trying to enter into negotiations, uh,
I just don't see that happening in the next couple months.
Uh, we would have to hire, um, a consultant
to actually reach out to private sectors
that might have land available.
I, I just don't see we can meet that timeline.
So if the goal, if the board wants us to spend time doing
that, um, we can do that.
But I, I highly suggest we do, do not,
it will slow down the process
and we will potentially not have a place for Emerald
to play the following year.
Go ahead, Jessica. So just to be clear,
the reason why we're in this situation is
because the negotiations to use the facilities at
Fallon Sports Park to not go through with the city.
Is that why we're looking at these two other alternatives?
I, I will go further back and we're in this situation
because we chose to build a high school on a, a piece
of land that cannot accommodate a comprehensive high school.
And the fallback was to negotiate with the city.
And we've been unsuccessful to date
to negotiate with the city.
Thank you,
trustee quo.
I'm just curious about how are these, um,
these OPSC reimbursements are calculated?
Is it based on school size? Is there formula or is it just,
It's, um, very complicated.
Okay. We hire a, uh, consultant
to do the paperwork and do it for us.
I, I can, I mean, you might as well ask me, you know,
some question about theoretical physics or something.
I don't know. They have a very complicated part of it is
that, you know, part of it, which is what we're dealing
with right now with them, is that, uh, you know,
they look at capacity too.
So it not only depends upon your application,
it depends upon the timing of your application.
So, like I said, right now, if we have, let's say we have,
uh, you know, 20 excess classrooms this year,
if we applied this year
and they looked at it, they would deny us.
If we apply three years from now when we don't have excess
classrooms, they would approve it.
So it's, a lot of, it's depending upon the circumstances
you're in and when you apply, not only when you apply,
but when they actually process your application.
So we apply now, it could be three years,
it could be five years
before they actually review our application
and they're gonna look at the present circumstances,
what's going on in your district, everything in order
for them to make their determination.
And typically there's no appealing for it.
Like this one at F Fredrickson that we just had
for 3.1 million, we appealed it and they came back
and said, no, but you can apply for, um, uh,
modernization money if you like,
but we're not gonna give you any money for new construction.
So it's really difficult to predict what OPS
and even SAB is going to do.
They, they, they, like, we have no idea of knowing
how many people have applied.
'cause they don't publish those numbers.
They only publish the numbers after you're approved.
So we can see who's been approved for projects.
We can't see who's applied for projects.
So it's very opaque.
Um, really difficult to, to,
to really look forward in the future
and make any r you know, very comp like any
for sure statements of
what they're gonna do three years from now
or four years from now when they actually get
around the looking at our application.
It could be that long. Thank you.
All righty. I think that's, that's it for this one.
This is not an action item. So Alrightyy
and we didn't have any, no public comment.
All right. Now I have an enrollment update. Um,
Yes, Dr. Campbell will introduce this one, please.
Thank you. Superintendent Funk, president Pelham
and board of trustees and members of the community.
Uh, last year, this time, this meeting,
Curtis Har got in front of you
to give a TKK enrollment update.
And that was on the request of the board.
And this year it, uh, we have expanded the, the presentation
and the information in front of you.
So our director of TK 12 programs is here
to give an update on enrollment,
what enrollment looks like in the district.
Thank you, Dr. Campbell. Good evening, president Pellum,
superintendent Funk, board of trustees
and members of executive cabinet.
I do not have a slide deck to share with you,
but I will give some highlights
or overview of the board report
and some things, uh, just that stood out, uh,
while the numbers were being, uh, looked at.
Um, and then I will be more than happy
to answer questions after.
So just to acclimate you to the report, the first six pages
and the beginning of page seven is our site enrollment data
as of August 19th of this school year.
Uh, it has the projected numbers, uh, that were given
to us in our most recent demographer report, as well
as our actual student enrollment numbers.
Uh, on that date. In the, in that section of the report,
you will see at the bottom of each one seats remaining.
Uh, the seats remaining is based upon the contractual
staffing ratio for grades TK through five.
And for the middle schools grades six through eight.
It's based on the number of science sections times 33
students to determine, uh, where we have space.
That information is primarily used for us as it relates to
any transfer requests that we get, either intra
or inter-district transfers, as well as helping us
to make decisions when it comes to whether
or not to divert students from one site to another site.
The word impacted
that's used here is based upon a staffing allocation.
It is not always based upon facility space. Okay.
So we have some sites that have classrooms
that aren't being used that are saying
that there are grade levels that are impacted.
It's just because of how we are staffed at those sites.
So at the elementary level, the sites
that have a significant impact are Amador Elementary,
which has impacted all grade levels except for first,
second, and fifth.
Dublin Elementary School in Doherty Elementary School, uh,
are impacted in three of the grade levels.
Both of those are kindergarten,
first grade, and fourth grade.
And then, um, for specific grade levels,
first grade is impacted, um, in the Fallon feeder area.
So those schools that are east of, uh, of Doherty Road, um,
all but one of the schools is impacted in first grade
and then third grade in all of the school, in two
of the three schools that all west of Doherty Road,
so Amador and Dublin Amador in first grade
and Dublin Elementary and third grade.
And those prospective regions are the only school sites
that have space remaining in those grade levels.
So you may have seen in the Dublin l section,
if you looked at the number of diversions, a lot
of diversions into Dublin Elementary School.
And that was primarily because of third grade
and then siblings of third graders, uh, in order to, uh,
to have space at those sites, uh,
because we were so impacted at in West Dublin schools in in
that grade level, um, middle school, uh, on pages five
and six, I wanted to just point out
that Fallon Middle School,
despite the science sections times 33, which may show
that there are some seats, you can see
that these seats remaining all are reflected at zero.
And that is due to the demographer capacity number,
um, being exceeded.
And so since that demographer capacity number has exceeded,
essentially no inter
or intra district transfers were approved for Fallon,
unless the students were already in their numbers, um,
at the time of the transfer request.
And then you can see at Wells Middle School,
grade seven is very close to being impacted as well.
Uh, speaking of, and now I'm gonna focus in on projections.
Um, projections at the, um, elementary level in grades first
through fifth grade, were all pretty close.
All of the grade levels were within 10
of the projection except
for fourth grade in which we had 26 more
students than projected.
However, if you look on page eight at the TK
and K numbers, you can see
that we are significantly under projection
in those two grade levels.
TK is about one classroom short of our projection 24 under,
but kindergarten we were 118 students below projection.
So that did impact, um, our staffing, uh,
as it related to that.
Uh, page seven in the report, uh,
just gives you some information on our transfers.
So the number of intra district transfers that we approved
and how many we denied, uh, just to,
to let the board know all to denials of
transfers either intra or enter are all based upon space.
That is the only deciding factors as to whether
or not we approve or deny is based on space at the site.
You can see, um, in the inter-district where our students
that are coming in the top three districts that, um,
have students that are coming into us.
And then you can also see in that, um, bottom area
the inter districts out of Dublin
and the top three school districts
that students are going out, um, to other school districts.
I wanted to spend a little bit of time focusing in on page
eight, which is the tk, um, and kindergarten numbers.
So in previous board reports talked about TK expanding
every year, two months, um, two additional months
until we reach the full implementation year
of all four year olds in tk.
Next year we'll be that full implementation year.
So you can see in the 25 26 line a significant
increase in the projection numbers from where our actuals
or projections were this year, um,
by about 150 students more next year in tk.
The main reason that next year shows so much more is
that we are actually adding three months as opposed
to the two months that we have been adding previously
to capture all of the summer months.
It's also the way that the ed code reads also means
that students who turn four by, um, the deadline, uh,
September 1st, that uh, birth dates can start school,
which means that we will have some three year olds in TK
next school year, um, the older three year olds by a couple
of weeks until they turn four.
Um, so this year, um,
we had ended up in tk in kindergarten classes
combined we had 45 classes with 50 classes
that were originally projected.
Next year, we are projected to have 54 classes this year,
45, so that if our projections hold true,
that would be an increase next year
for tk in kindergarten of nine classes.
Um, it may actually be more than nine classes
'cause I factored that in at the 20, at the 12 to one ratio.
But next year another wrinkle for TK is that the adult
to student ratio decreases from 12 students to one adult,
to 10 students to one adult.
Um, so I think that pretty much covers, uh,
just some of the overviews in some areas that I just wanted
to make the bring to the board's attention.
Um, and at this time I'm more than happy
to answer any questions that you may have.
Trustee Speck and then Trustee Blackman,
thank you for the report.
Um, I have a few questions, um, on the kindergarten,
so it's, you know, about 120 off the projection.
Do we have any idea where those kids go?
I know that, you know, he has pretty good science
around making that as far as they actually, you know,
this wasn't like projecting birth.
These were kids who were born
and they were just, you know, four.
Um, do we know if they went private?
Are they part of that big San Ramon number? Like what?
Do we have any idea?
It's a good question. Uh, I don't know, Chris,
if you have any insight in regards
to kindergarten projections as it relates
to the demographer reports
and that number being off by
so much compared to other grade levels?
Kindergarten is without a doubt,
the most challenging grade level to predict, you know,
the best data that we have feeding into that model is
how many, uh, kids were born five years ago
and things change in five years.
And obviously we've seen a lot
of change over the last five years.
So that's, like I said, that's kind of the best data point.
Um, and it's not a great one,
so I think it's getting a little tighter,
but it's definitely a, an area that we continue to look at.
So he doesn't actually have a way,
or the d doesn't have a way to
actually know 4-year-old other than if they were our TK
students that are living in the area.
They are doing it off of five yearold birth rates,
and we've grown a lot and we had a pandemic and okay's.
Exactly right. So that would be big effect. All right.
Um, I noticed a lot of students are leaving our district
and going to San Ramon.
Um, can you, is
that across our K through 12?
Do we see it concentrated at a certain grade,
like high school or middle school or elementary,
or do we see it even swath? What, what's,
I would have to look a little more deeply at the data from
what, from the approvals
that I have done over the course of this summer.
It seems to run the gamut as far as inter-district transfers
regarding the age of students.
But I haven't dove, dove in deep enough,
dove I think is the right word, uh,
and deep enough to the data to be able to look
for any trends that that might be.
So I'm more than happy to, uh, to look
to see if there are some specific trends based upon grade
level, um, span or age that may lead to transfers to
Outside of our district. Yeah, I'm,
I'm hoping that you
see it at a high school level.
And we had a very crowded high school and,
and that maybe that would start to decrease
as we have more capacity level is just, just a one thought.
But, um, obviously that's a lot of kids that are,
are leaving our district.
Um, and while we were in that massive growth
and so overcrowded at so many schools,
it wasn't as big a deal.
But we, we have space now for them
and so we don't, we don't want them to leave Dublin.
Right. Um, uh, you talked about diversions,
um, and you gave the example, uh, third grade at Dublin l
if, um, I moved to town and I live in the Murray district
and there's not space, so I get diverted
to Dublin l third grade and I love it.
Do I get to go there for fourth and fifth
or am I popped back to Murray at
the end of the summer? Sure.
So what we do for students
who are diverted is once a space opens up at the, uh, school
of residence, the school would call that family
and let them know that there is a space available
if the family chooses at that point in time
to remain at the site that they're at, um,
we actually do a internal intra district transfer for
that student to approve that student to remain at
that school, which then becomes their new school
of residents until the end of that grade band.
So if it's a third grader in the example you gave
and they wanted to remain at Dublin Elementary School,
they could remain there until fifth grade,
but then once middle school hits, then it, it would,
they would kind of go back into their,
what their regular school of residence is.
Okay. This, this came up, I think, in some questions
that you had sent in regards to specifically in the area
that is zoned for Shamrock Hills,
where we have some students who,
because they're closer in, um, distance to Dougherty,
but they were zoned for Murray
that they did an intra district transfer into Doherty.
Once they get to fifth grade, if they're zoned for wells,
then they would go into Wells's number.
If they're zoned where they live for Fallon,
then Fallon would be their school of residence.
So it's, it, it kind of all starts over regardless of
that intra at the end of fifth grade,
eighth grade, and eighth grade.
Okay. With the exception of Cottonwood Creek.
Cottonwood Creeks are good all the way through eighth grade.
Okay. Um, and then Shamrock Hills,
I guess would be the same way in two
Years. Shamrock Hills will be all
the way through eighth grade
'cause it's the last grade at the school that you are at.
And then it, the process starts over
Again. And since they're outta school
that had space for them
and we're approving these based on space, if they want
to stay at the school they were diverted to,
we would always approve those.
Right. Because there's space for them. That is correct.
Okay. Um, uh, seventh grade,
what happens if another student goes to Wells
and then seventh grade is full?
Do they have to go all the way over to Cottonwood,
which looks like the only school with seventh grade
Capacity? Yeah, so it gets
a little bit tricky when you
get to the second grade level.
Um, we primarily use these numbers for determining whether
or not to approve, approve any inter
or intra district transfers into that grade level
when it comes to students that live in that area
of residence, because we know
that our middle schools are spaced out, um,
what we essentially do is we ask the school, um, based upon
what courses of study that the student needs,
can you build reasonably build a schedule for that student
to remain at their school of residence?
If the answer is yes, then we go ahead and just enroll them.
If the answer is no, we can't build a schedule for
that student because they need this specific math course
and it's highly impacted, then yes, at that point we would,
we would, would do an in, we would do a, um,
diversion in this case to Cottonwood Creek.
Okay. So we'll try everything we can Correct.
But at some point there would hit a ceiling
At secondary schools. Yes.
At the elementary level, we try to stay within region.
Yeah. Um, we have a little bit of wiggle room with the going
above the staffing ratio, um, per our contract
to go one student or two students over,
which we have done in some
of our grade levels at the elementary level,
it'll still show a zero seats remaining,
but some of our sites do have space for any students
that move into the area, just not space for any transfers.
Okay. Um,
and then my last question was on the high school,
there was no, um, row for seats remaining.
Does that just mean we have plenty of extra space
for each of the grades for those
Schools? Uh, it's
both, both schools, uh, at this point in time, um,
have, have space.
Again, it goes back to the, can you build a schedule.
Uh, we will need to build out something similar to
what we do at the middle school level,
likely like ninth grade health, uh, 10th grade, uh,
world history, something like that to build that base off of
for us to make those determinations.
But at this point, the direction to the high schools are,
can you build a schedule for a student?
If so, then they go ahead and stay there.
And at this point there have been no issues. Okay.
Great. Thank you. Thank you for the presentation.
I found it very helpful. I wanted to piggyback on something
that, uh, trustee Spec had mentioned
about the loss of students.
If we look at the value of 167 students,
that's about $2.5 million
and we need every million dollars we have.
So I know it may not seem like a priority,
but finding out exactly why they left
and what we can do to change the situation so
that they come back, I think should be one
of the highest priorities we have right now.
Budgets being what they are chasing,
every million dollars is worth it.
So that's the first comment. And one other comment I wanna
have is you're looking at, um,
capacity in seats in some of the schools.
And I appreciate the questions
that Trustee Spec had asked about some of the issues
with regard to seventh grade, for example.
But I'm also looking at some of the trends,
especially on the east side.
I know we've had a good break in terms of the number
of students coming out of eighth grade in terms of
how many go to Emerald
and how many go to DHS, which is great
'cause it's helping to soften serve the impact at Emerald.
But the numbers coming out of Cottonwood Creek
and Fallon show a stark difference in terms of
what we originally designed Emerald for.
If all of those students show up at Emerald,
we need a school of 2,800 students and we don't have it.
So I would appreciate when we do bring the demographer
numbers back, that we start to look at the sort of breakup
of why students choose one school versus another
to really begin to understand like
what we're getting ourselves into in the next couple years
when we get to full capacity at, at Emerald, I'm psyched
that we have some space in some of the classes.
I appreciate the fact that you guys have made lots
of accommodations for students, but I also am very concerned
about what this indicates.
'cause we can look at trends moving across my one comment
to you about the document.
I understand now that some
of the information was not about the physical seats in a
classroom so much as staff.
I would've appreciated a little,
little editorial piece that had been written.
I actually thought this had to do with classroom capacities
as opposed to actual numbers.
I understand that some staff can request additional students
by contract in their classroom to help ease some
of the capacity issues we have.
But is there any way to, to discern for us
where we actually have the,
that wiggle room and set these sites?
When you say that we have, for example,
I can pull up any one of these right now,
but let's say Murray Elementary
and first grade, we have 12 seats remaining.
Is that 12 seats actually in the real physical classroom
like that aren't occupied?
Or those 12 additional seats that we can put in by contract,
by allowing the teachers
to accept more students than they're actually
by contract supposed to have?
In other words, they get paid more for.
So I would've, I would've appreciated a little bit more
detail to explain like,
this is the extras versus this is our hard baseline of
what we're at until we ask for the extras.
Thank you.
All Right. Anything, anyone else? Thank you.
This is really helpful. Um, kind of knowing and,
and having looked at demographer numbers for a long time,
actually seeing hard numbers, um, how many, you know,
show up in each grade level.
Um, and they never seem to come in nice packets
of 24 like we would like them to. So, um,
Especially Not in tk.
No. Um, so thank you for that.
This is, this is helpful
and I think I assume will be an ongoing yearly, um, report
and I think it's very helpful for planning and,
and just getting a sense of where everything is.
So thank you for all of this.
Next up we have our public comment period.
Do we have any, I see some speaker cards over there.
We do. We have one person here in the room
and I see one person with their hand raised
Online. Okay. And if there's
anyone else online who would like to,
um, comment during the general public comment period,
please, um, log on right now once we finish the in-person,
I'll close off then.
Um, and just a reminder that, um, you have three minutes,
um, for your, your comment and that we cannot, um, respond.
We are listening, staff is listening,
but, um, we aren't allowed to, um, engage in a dialogue
during this portion of the meeting.
So go ahead and call our first speaker.
Our in-person, speaker is Ram S.
Can you hear me? Hello? Oh, okay.
Uh, good evening, board of trustees, uh,
and Superintendent Funk.
My name is Ram Hanberg, uh,
and I'm a father of two kids at Dublin High School.
We have had a shelter in place
and an assault on a student on the Dublin High School
premises in the span of one week.
One week. Let that sink in for a moment.
I do wanna thank you for the notifications
and the plan outlined to deter such behavior,
specifically in the case of the assault.
But that unfortunately is not enough.
Many in the community have reached out to me
and shared their concerns,
and we have had several discussions.
Students, staff, parents,
and the community as a whole are anxious
and worried, as are you.
I would imagine. I want to acknowledge and thank the coach
and the members of the football team for stepping in
and defending and stopping the attack.
But let's be very clear
and agree that is not the expectation.
We cannot afford such incidents
nor the collateral damage,
whether it's teachers or students.
So what specific steps is the board going to take
to prevent not just ditter, but prevent such behavior
and attacks in the future?
What specific actions is the board going to take
to hold people accountable for these situations
while student and staff safety is
and must be our primary concern,
we cannot ignore the side effects.
Multiple news outlets are covering these incidents.
This directly impacts the reputation
of our flagship high school in Dublin.
And the city of Dublin itself, DUSD has been one
of the fastest growing districts in the state.
And these kinds of issues are going
to affect our enrollment rates
and it's only going to get worse if we do not take swift
and stringent action.
I strongly urge you to keep an open communication line
and prevent and sorry,
and provide frequent updates to ease the anxiousness
of the students, the staff, the parents,
and the community as a whole.
We are worried. Thank you.
Thank you. And we have an online Mm-Hmm.
Go ahead and do that. Okay.
We have one online speaker. Go ahead.
Hello, uh, my name is Caroline Martinez.
I am a newer, uh, uh, parent, uh,
within this district.
Um, as we just heard on Friday,
we had an alarming incident happened at one
of our schools on Friday.
We actually had two alarming incidents occur at two
different schools, uh, here within our district.
Um, these are critical safety concerns,
and though no one here can prevent these kind
of safety concerns, there was an obvious lack
of communication around, I think the
response time from the Dublin Police Services team.
We cannot prevent bad things from happening,
but we can have protocols in place to ensure
that when these things do happen, the community is alerted.
But more importantly, that our kids are kept safe.
We had a extremely delayed lockdown at an elementary school
that was directly across, uh,
the wave from a horrible incident.
Again, not something we can prevent,
but the fact that students were being let out of
that elementary school
after police were informed of that situation
seems preposterous.
I think the board must urgently address these gaps to ensure
that we have safety for everyone involved, students, staff,
faculty, um,
but we need to restore the confidence in our
emergency protocols.
And I would like to know what steps will be taken
to improve communication
and collaboration with the doubling PD moving forward.
Um, and I also have a quick, uh,
comment about the enrollment update that was provided.
Uh, we w with those numbers
provided, there seems to be a he highly impacted program
with, uh, that's SDC students, um, at Dublin High School.
Um, they are far over the projected numbers
and I'm wondering what's being, what's going to be done
to help continue to support that team, um, as they are,
uh, supporting very delicate, uh,
students in very delicate situations.
Thank you.
That concludes our Public Comment.
Alright, thank
you. Um,
and then our other one is for a specific item, so we'll,
we'll call that, um, when we get to that item.
All righty. And that actually brings us to consent tonight.
Um, so that is, I wrote it down,
GHIJ and K.
We have a public comment for item H one.
So I will pull that so that that speaker can pull, can, um,
speak, um, and then we can vote on it after that.
Is there any other items that, um, members
of the board would like to, to pull?
Um, trustee Blackman,
Sorry, you're all gonna be mad,
but G three, G four, H one, H two, H three and J six.
Okay. I can't write that best.
Sorry. G three, G four, H one, H two,
H three J six.
Some are for real comments and discussions.
Some are just a request. We'll be quick.
Okay. Did someone get, okay, so is there
Anything Yeah, I'll make a motion to approve
the consent calendar.
Minus H one, H two,
H 3G 3G four and J six.
Did I get the J one? Right? Um,
I'll second.
Okay. Uh, trustee Wanni. Aye. Wanni. Everyone else? Aye.
Aye, aye. Okay.
So let, I'm going to start
with H one since we have a speaker here for that one.
Um, and then we'll go through the others in order.
Um, so,
So the reason why you want, the reason why I pulled it,
Um, for H one I we're Gonna have a presentation.
Presentation. No, we just have a, a public, uh,
public comment on that one.
So I was gonna let our our public comment speaker speak
first, and then we can ask questions after that.
And I see, um, Mr. Wiley is here to answer questions.
Um, dik sha you wanna come and do your public comment again?
You'll have three minutes. We'll do the timer.
Dear Honorable trustees
and Superintendent Funk, my name is Dik Shaath
and I could not be more proud to stand before you today.
Last fall as a junior at Dublin High School,
I witnessed a unique challenge unfold in our classrooms.
One that sparked uncertainty, confusion,
and concern artificial intelligence,
while only recently capturing headlines has been developing
for nearly a century,
yet its sudden integration into our daily lives
revealed just how little most of us truly understand it.
The rapid advancement
of AI presented schools across the nation
with unprecedented circumstances.
In the face of this, it became clear that we needed
to develop a policy
to guide its responsible use within our schools.
Without clear guidelines, the potential for misuse
and equity and a breakdown
of trust in our educational practices
was too great to ignore.
We recognized that AI could be both a powerful tool
and a source of significant challenges,
if not managed properly.
The need for a policy wasn't just about regulating a new
technology, it was about ensuring
that this tool could enhance learning while safeguarding the
integrity and ethics of our education system.
This board policy is a testament to the resilience,
flexibility, and innovative spirit of our district.
In just one year, we have crafted responsible guidelines
that harness the unlimited potential
of this rapidly advancing technology while upholding our
district's core values of morality and safety.
As the first district in our area
to take action on this prevalent topic,
we have truly upheld the USD's mission
of fostering an equitable and inclusive
and creative environment where both our students
and staff can thrive.
I'm eternally grateful that our district
provided its students the opportunity
to play a pivotal role in the process
and to see firsthand what it means
to support a community that you love.
Thank you.
Thank you. You had a question,
trustee Blackman on this one.
Um, thank you. I actually have reviewed the policy
and given that we had back to school night
and the amount of AI that it seems
that teachers are incorporating,
it made me wanna go back and review it.
So my first, the first question I might have with regard
to this is, um, I see
that you've actually incorporated some things,
but there are also some concerns I have.
When were, were you expecting to enact this policy?
If it's approved tonight,
Um, I would work with, uh, both, uh, Matt, um, Campbell,
um, Sherry
and Superintendent Funk to set aside what time we want
to, uh, enact that.
Okay. Um, since most of the SLIs
and everything have already been set, uh, we'd probably be
at the very earliest, probably looking at
the second semester.
Thank you. That helps. And have you had an opportunity
to send this information out to teachers
to request their feedback in terms of how,
if they see things that address what, how they need to use
or don't use ai?
Uh, we did have some teachers that were involved in the
initial part of the committee,
but they, at the, uh, at the very end
of the tweaking, they were not.
Uh, but it has not been sent out to DTA as a whole. So
Are we planning to do that to get their feedback?
Um, we could do that, yes.
No, this is the second reading tonight. Okay.
So no, then no, we'll bringing it
forward for a vote tonight.
Okay. Then I have some comments that I think we need
to address in the document.
Um, so there are some teachers
that are actually utilizing in the,
their syllabus right now, other ways of using ai.
And some of the ways that we've annotated in the document
specifically calls out the way we want
them to or not want them to.
And in some cases we actually give them leeway and,
and use terminology that seems overly subjective,
where the teacher is able to determine the extent
to which the student overstepped in their use of ai,
not really using any parameters to define it very well
for either the teacher or the student.
And yet there's also
information in the back of the document.
I'll go through each point that doesn't necessarily explain
what are the steps when we do an investigation
to enable a student to, basically, it, it talks about
where we allow them to show how they have used AI
and that obviously, or not used AI to demonstrate
that in fact the, um, uh, for lack of better word,
the accusation being placed on 'em
for their abusive AI is untrue.
So they're guilty before their proven innocence.
So I, I want us to highlight some of this.
And I do think that students and
and teachers alike need more specificity so
that they can provide very good direction
to those students if we are gonna roll this out in January,
so I wanna go through little pieces of it.
Um, I'm glad you answered that.
It won't roll out until January.
So that really, uh, big sigh of relief.
Um, on the second page under the student category list,
under this third paragraph, there is a subjective state.
I'm sorry, I'm at the ar. Okay.
And I was just, I have one comment on the ai,
but I'm, I'm on the board policy,
but the AR talks about it adds a subjective comment about
15% of their writing
as it detracts from a student's ability to write eloquently.
I think the statement about
how a student writes is subjective
and should be, um, scratched from the document.
I don't think we should be describing what we think about
how AI works for a student or not works for a student.
That's really subjective in some
of the information on your list.
In the paragraph below, it talks about ways to assist
and use, um, generative ai.
It does not include the fact that many teachers are asking
students to use AI to check their homework
because the teachers are not checking their homework.
So they're getting information using different platforms.
So we need to figure out if we have a homework policy
and our teachers are allowing students to use AI
to check their homework, how does
that roll into both our homework policy,
but also at what point do we draw the line
where checking our homework isn't necessarily abusing ai
but it's a necessary piece
because the teacher's not correcting the homework.
Um, another piece
that I found in the second will ask paragraph,
there is a statement according
to the instructor's discretion.
I would ask that wherever we have anything written like
this, according to the instructor's discretion,
that we really actually put some
more finite language into it.
Because I've noticed in many of the syllabus
that it basically is all over the map in terms of who,
how much, what's expected, percentages, et cetera.
And I think for a student who's trying to be aware
of when they step over a line, that it needs
to be less at the instructor's discretion
and more very specific
and a good good guidance
for those teachers, but also for the students.
Question for you, how do you cite an AI generated quote?
I would love to know that. 'cause I know in English class we
go through citing things from the internet.
We go through citing books, magazines, articles,
things on television.
I've not quite figured out how do you cite ai?
Actually, um, each of the groups like MLA are developing,
uh, and have developed site a ways of citing ai.
And if you go on, uh, Purdue Al, which is a, uh, typical
citing website where you can generate sites,
they do have the ability to generate, um, AI sighting.
That's great. So we're gonna start working
with our elementary students when they're developing the
ability to cite works that they get used to how to do that.
'cause we gotta start early, right? Mm-Hmm.
Um, on the following page, when we talk about compliance
and enforcement, the concern I have is that, um,
without being more definitive, the resulting decision
that a student is not being compliant is really subjective.
We need more parameters as to
what would trigger something like this.
What would be specifics that would actually call attention
to the fact that something seems very off.
I don't know what it is. Like all
of a sudden they're doing poorly then now their writing is
just like perfect, but figure it out and put in here.
Because the concern I have with this entire section is
that leaves it up to the discretion
of the instructor when the student could have done no wrong.
They now have to basically come to their own defense
to demonstrate in fact their use of whatever it is
that they did does not go
outside whatever lines it is the gray lines
that we're defining that they stepped over.
I don't think there's enough information in here.
And I'm concerned about one teacher in one class having one
view of when you step over the line,
another teacher having a different
view and not having that alignment.
So I wanna put students in a
stressful situation where they just don't know.
But I think this needs to have more information in it
to help the teachers.
Um, again, I just think there needs
to be a lot more teacher input on some of this information.
Um, one of the questions I had was, we,
some students are being asked to utilize chat GPT
as part of their coursework.
So chat GPT, you set up an account to use it.
If the school district is requesting you to set up
and use a chat GPT, is that being
through the school district?
Are we setting up a separate sort
of boxed in use of the platform?
Or is this the student's own personal account?
And then are we then allowing staff
or teachers when they're reviewing the student work,
allowing them to then come inside the student's personal,
um, access to the platform?
So I don't know. I know that students have chat GPT at home.
Mm-Hmm. They probably are being, they're being asked
to use some platforms at school,
but there's this gray line between where is it ours
and where is it theirs
and how do we protect the privacy
of the information the student may have had
working on who knows what.
Maybe it's a college application
and they're, they're asking chat GBT
to help them like figure out like, what is the proper name
for a city in this location?
I don't know. But I just get worried
that we've got some blurred lines right now.
And if our staff are requesting that students share out some
of their information, their chat GBT they're using in
school, that it, it broadens the realm
of when we're getting into some
of their personal information.
Which I don't know what it is,
but I would ask that we start to define
where those lines are drawn
because I'm not seeing in the syllabus. Okay.
Um, but so may I ask for a clarification?
So if a student sends an email from their private account,
do you believe teachers have access to their personal email?
I only believe that, and the reason why I'm making this
request is that some courses require you to use AI platforms
and the teachers for purposes of reviewing some
of the information you're developing have asked for access
to your personal accounts
because they have to review what it is
that you're developing there as part of the project.
I could go into a lot more detail. I don't want to,
But Right. But, but yeah.
So I I I will make it very clear.
As a district we have policies that are
outside the AI policy
and there's no reason why
a teacher would have personal access to anybody's personal,
uh, platforms from home.
And if they're asking that, then you need
to let us know and we'll put a stop to it.
If they're gonna allow, uh, chat, uh, boxes to be used
during class time, then it needs
to be through the district system.
If not, and they're doing it at home,
they're still gonna have to cite where they got that.
But teachers will not have access
to anybody's personal technology.
And I appreciate the response.
The reason why I bring it up is simply
because we're in this new world of ai.
Mm-Hmm. Where a lot of the lines are blurred between like
where is it something you can use at home versus something
at school and at what point does it become something
where we need to see what the students developed at home
because the work is being done at home.
So it'd be nice if there was more information here
and guidance as to where we draw that line.
Where is it okay to authorize students to use AI
of some format at home to specific use the teacher requests
that isn't just random on the part of the student,
but specific request And at what point is
that information then carried over
and brought in front of the teacher?
I just see that there are lines right now,
they're very blurry and I don't think
because we've addressed it well here
or that maybe those teachers haven't been involved in the
development of this AR
and board policy that we're not hearing
that need that they have.
And so it's not written in here
and codified so that they know I've gotta pull
that piece back or I need to make other accommodations.
But I know that students are sort of confused
'cause they're hearing don't use chat GPT
and then teachers are saying, Hey,
and that's just one example of the platform.
Use it at home, develop this and bring it back to school.
So please, if there's a way to actually unblur those lines,
I think it would be very helpful for both the instructors
and it might change them a syllabus for next next spring.
But it would certainly be helpful for the students
to know when they cross that boundary
and what the boundary really is.
Thank you. Okay.
So I would simply add that um,
the reason why I would think
that the lines are blurry right now
is 'cause we have no policy.
So it's a wild, wild west right now.
And so creating a policy that provides guidelines,
implementing it for a year and seeing what works
and where we need to revise it, this is a policy
as we stated, is gonna have to be reviewed on a yearly basis
'cause AI changes so drastically.
Um, but I think those blurry lines right now is
'cause we have absolutely nothing to reference
And we also just approve the board policy.
We don't approve the ar. So that is developed by staff.
Um, are there any other questions or comments on this one?
Otherwise I will, um, just equal
Do Thers have to last an entire year?
I mean if something pressing comes up, it could be adjusted.
That's correct. ARS can be adjusted, um, in real time.
Thank you. I would hate
to throw a curve ball at people in real time.
You know, like all of a sudden we make a change
and on a Friday night and it happens on a Monday.
I wouldn't suggest that, but I would suggest a thoughtful
conversation of why we need to make a change mid-year.
Trustee speck you to question.
I was just gonna say a board policy also could come back
if a majority of us ask for it to come back
and we could adjust it, you know, at any point, right.
So yeah. Okay.
All right. I'm gonna go ahead
and call for a vote on this one
then, or I'm gonna call for a motion.
'cause I guess we don't have a motion on the flight.
I guess we should have done that before, but this is on
board policy 0 4 4 0 0.1.
I'll move that we approve board policy 0 4 4 0 0.1.
Artificial intelligence.
I second. All righty. I have a motion a second.
Do you have any other motions? Trustee Blackman?
I'd like to make a friendly amendment
to the motion put on the table by trustee spec
that it carries with a notation that the approved AR
and board policy would be transmitted to staff
and requested for comment by
no later than one month from now.
Sure. I will accept that for my motion.
I'll second that. Any other
motions or anything on the floor?
All right, I'm gonna call for a vote. Um, trustee Pesi.
Aye. Everyone else?
Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Motion carries. Thank you.
All righty. Our next one
is G three, is that correct?
Thank you for letting me pull this up.
Um, you know, we're in the middle of election season, so,
and I know some things have changed recently,
but one of the things I've noticed both in the 9 2, 2 0
and 9 2 2 3 is that there's a lot of conflicts
between the documents
and current approaches of how elections are being run
by the county, but also certainly ways that we're required
to follow with regards to whether it's a interim
or a, whether we're having to put an election on the ballot
and an off election date.
I don't know how you would say that,
but one of the things that I brought up
before is that I know that ED code in the first paragraph
of the bylaw 9 2 2 0 states that you have
to be a citizen of California.
And I brought up that I don't believe anybody actually has
citizenship of California so much as we are a citizen
of the United States with residency in California.
And I requested that we go back to legal to find out like
how we could amend that because I actually think,
I don't know who wrote this, but citizen
of California is like a, I don't know where
that stated anywhere.
Is that on our DMV license or something?
Is, there's some statements in there
that calls us all citizens of California.
I didn't realize that anybody was
called a citizen of California.
Yeah, that statement comes, uh,
that phrase comes directly out of ED code 3 5 1 0 7.
Okay, I understand that,
but maybe somebody should send 'em a little note saying,
yeah, this needs to be cleaned up a bit.
Um, so one of the things that I wanted to go through is,
um, a couple things.
In the third paragraph down, we talk about, um,
that we will provide information
to new candidates if they upon their request.
Um, for every year that I have run for office,
we've actually requested candidates come to us.
Every candidate has been given the same offer to come
and meet with both the superintendent, legal
and the board president at the time to do a full review, uh,
review of the entire structuring of the district, all
of our meetings, all of our committees,
how board meetings are run, um, some of our bylaws,
our budget, as well as um, brown Act.
And I know that I found it incredibly helpful.
The third paragraph says
that it's only upon request by the candidate.
And I just wanna make this really clear
that most people can't know what they don't know,
especially when they're stepping into a seat
they've never been in before.
So to make it one part of our bylaw that they have to know
that they need it, I think really is disingenuous.
We should actually strike if we can that sentence out
and just whenever there are new candidates for a position
of the board that we will always provide
that orientation meeting whomever they are,
they can choose to attend or not.
So that's my first comment.
Um, one of the things I find
that's a little bit confusing about the issues with regard
to calling recalling board members is I'm very concerned
with the dates and the requirement now stated by the state
of California that in fact any recall document actually has
to include the cost estimate
of conducting a special election.
One of the things that occurs is when um,
you're recalling a board member,
there's a certain time limit that is provided
and dictated by the county.
So to ask a recall group
or individual, whoever that might be, that they have
to rely on county information that is then verified
or worked on with a school district to validate the cost
of the election eats into that time window.
And so I would ask that,
I don't think anybody thought about this when they wrote
some of these requirements for funding,
but it seems like we need clarification as to the timeliness
of that when it occurs,
but also when the clock starts for that petition.
So if they're given 30 days, um,
and it takes the board
or maybe not the board, it takes the county
and the district 10 days, then they have one third less time
because of procedural processes to provide them with data.
So it'd be great if both the county
and maybe whoever created this, um,
new code could actually validate whether
or not the clock starts
after that information was received by that committee
or group or if it incorporates that delay in
of information before they can initiate their process.
So that's one thing. Um, I also noticed
that there's information about, um, the consolidation
of elections, which seems
that when we talk about consolidation of elections, um,
if we're outside the six month point, um,
it seems like the decision could be to push everything back
to a regularly scheduled election.
So I know that that doesn't seem to make any sense.
I know that some of this is code,
but wherever we can write, we should clarify, um,
that we're not held to basically pushing everything
to regular election because in the verbiage
provided that if you're 240 days out,
you could be pushed not to a March date,
but back to a November date, which seems just absurd.
So I understand that these are some things coming from the
state, but I find that the information is, um,
very conflicting and if anything is designed
to really prohibit people from voicing their opinion, one
of the other things I wanna ask about is we have in the
statement, under election processes
and procedures, it states that under government, um, code,
the board member whose term has expired shall continue
to discharge the duties of the office
until a successor has qualified by taking the oath
of office throughout the document.
The oath of O office is often stated as if it's some trigger
that occurs after the election.
But I will point out that the county
of Alameda has every candidate take the oath
of office when they fill out their paperwork.
So that oath of office technically has occurred in August
and I know that we have to receive our confirmation from,
um, the county officer with regard to the outcome
of elections, but we shouldn't be predating those decisions
based on an oath of office being, uh,
there's a document in here that says that somebody has
to turn in or file a document,
but that information's already been filed.
So a little bit of discussion
with the county would be helpful because what they're doing
and what we're we're being held to doesn't seem to jive.
Um, so that was my, some of the earlier pieces
that I thought were a little bit off, um,
there's just a lot of information in here that doesn't seem
to jive with, we're also by area.
And so it gets complicated with regard to the fact
that we have elections every other year and it's by area.
And I think that there's some misunderstanding about,
um, I'll give you an example.
Somebody runs for office
and they're outside of this certain, uh,
four month timeline, then we would end up appointing them
and they would basically sit in that seat
until which time there was an election
and there could be somebody else running for that election,
but it's very possible nobody does,
in which case they would've served for all of like three
or four months and been gone.
But at the same time, because of one of our processes,
if somebody else leaves the seat,
we can still appoint within that period of time.
But if it's an elected seat that is up for election for
that November, they would basically be sworn in on
November 6th and be sworn out like the very next day when
the other person's seated like a day or two later.
So there's just some information that by area doesn't seem
to jive, um, that's in this document that doesn't jive
with being a by area district.
And it'd be great if we could go back to the county
and ask them like, how do we rectify some
of these issues when we could end up appointing somebody
who would literally be unseed the very next day.
Um, so that's my comments on G three.
I just find that, um, unfortunately we're stuck
with some really bad, um, decisions by Sacramento.
Um, but the one thing that I would definitely want us
to change is that in paragraph three, that we
scratch the piece upon request by the candidate to enable us
to always offer this regardless if the
candidate asks or not.
So as a staff of recommendation, I,
I have no objections to striking that.
Uh, I, I personally, uh, reached out to the three candidates
and invited them to come in, um, to learn about the district
and provide them necessary information.
It was not with the board president, it was not
with legal counsel, it was with, uh, Chris Hobbs and myself.
Uh, the Brown Act will be, um, they'll be given a full, um,
review of the Brown Act by legal counsel
once they're elected, not prior to.
I understand. I just found my own perspective was it was
helpful to have, especially the board president in the room
and legal because there were questions I know
that I had about aspects of the walkthrough that I,
it was helpful to hear the point
of view from another board member.
So
Could we just change the wording on here
shall offer the board candidate information,
like we can't force them to come take it kind of a thing.
I mean, I would, I don't know why they wouldn't,
but instead of, shall offer a board candidate
take out upon request of the candidate information,
does that make sense to people or am I just
Yeah, that's, I like that.
Um, the other thing I would ask is, is there any way
to find out from the election officials in the county
how long it takes them to turn around the cost for a recall?
'cause
It, you can always ask that,
but that has no, no relevance to
This policy. No,
no, it doesn't.
But I think it would be helpful to meet
with our state legislators to basically talk
to them about some of the es
of this information if we had better data that we could go
to them with and ask them for a change.
So it would be helpful, uh,
if we could determine the motion that you would like
to bring forward with the specific
change that you're requesting.
All right. Well, I will just, um, can I ask one question?
If we have a section that talks about, um, an oath
taken, can we qualify that?
I don't know how to do this,
but the, it seems like everywhere in the document
and then the other document talks about
as if the oath is taken after the election,
but in fact the oath is taken before,
Don't we? Do you want an oath
at the meeting
when we swear everybody in?
The oath is taken in August at
the county register's office,
But there's also the formal swearing in at the meeting.
That oath means nothing. That's just for purposes
of a ceremony.
The actual oath has happened when you filed your papers
that that oath is solely, you know, so people can be here
and witness it and whatever,
but the actual oath has already happened.
But at that point, you're taking an,
you're not being sworn into office at that point.
If it's a contested election, you're taking an oath,
but you're not being sworn into office at
that point in time when you pull your papers.
No, you're not. However, like the person for area three
that ran unopposed, uh,
is actually covered under the Brown Act right now
because they are a
presumptive, uh, board member
At the, So they, they would need
that round act training as soon as possible
because they are covered by it right now.
Um, So the reason why I was bringing this up is
that if we could add verbiage somewhere in here
that acknowledges that the county
of Alameda actually provides the oath of office
when a candidate pulls papers just to acknowledge it so
that there's, we at least have it somewhere in the document
so that when there's a conflict,
it's not like we didn't know.
So, uh, um, again, we are following the ED code
and the election code, um,
and if there is something that I comes in the future
where someone is challenged, it would be the register
of off, uh, voters that would make that decision.
Um, so again, I'm asking for specific changes in
that third paragraph that you're, that you're asking for.
All the other things are tied to ed code and election code
and, uh, not being an attorney.
I would not recommend making any
of those changes at this time.
Then the only changes we can make is that third section
and then maybe we can meet with legal at some point
after this is approved so we can review the things we'd like
to get answers from the county on.
I I'm not in favor of spending our legal dollars on that.
I, I just, I don't think that we, Dublin Unified is going
to change the counties
and the law out there,
and I'd rather our our staff focus on
educating our students.
I mean, I, I understand what you're saying
and it's frustrating, but, um, we have limited staff
and I would not be in favor
of them spending effort and time on this.
All right. Do we have a motion on the floor?
Are we motion on this one? Trustee Blackman?
I, I also, um, would like
to make a comment under consolidation of elections,
the discussion about the 25%
or more compared to the average local turnout
for a previous four statewide general election.
Uh, one of the concerns I have is we
do our elections by area.
This presumes that we're doing it by city
and we're basing the information on by city.
We do not have four prior statewide elections from which
to pull information for our bi area election.
So again, this is one of those things where I don't know
how we would respond to this
because we don't actually have the largest
of information broken out by each area
for the last election, last four elections.
So again, I, I understand we don't wanna burn legal time,
but we have information in here as to how we would conduct
and we yet can't do it based on the information here.
So there's not that I want us to go in
into deep into the woods,
but a nice letter to our legislator that explains
what the issues are with this
and how it applies to us would certainly allow them
to take this up next time they're in session.
All righty. I'm gonna call for a motion on this one.
I don't think we have a motion on the floor at this point,
and I think we need to move on.
Anyone,
I'll move that We approve bylaw 92 20 governing board
elections with the, um, addition of,
in the third paragraph we scrap the, um,
or we x out the upon request by the candidate.
That is listed twice in there.
I think I'm only seen it once,
but yes, it's, it's there twice.
And to strike it out both times, um,
the words upon request by the candidate.
One second. Uh, just for clarification,
the other piece was shall provide.
We can't force them to come in so may
Offer, right? I guess I was thinking
of an email.
You know, if you email them, they, you have provided it.
Um, and so I, I actually kind of like the shall provide,
like you have to send them an email, um, I'd like you
to do more, but if they don't wanna come
and meet with you, then you can't do anymore.
But you can, um, send them an email
and give 'em the information and
that way we're showing like we expect that.
Yep. Makes perfect sense. Thank you for the clarification.
Okay, we have a motion and a second on
the floor on this one.
Any other motions? All right,
trustee pe Aye.
Everyone else? Aye, aye, aye, aye.
So G four really quickly, um, one of the things
that I wanted clarification on is on, um, that's
by law 9 2 2 3 filling vacancies.
Item number six talks about board members ceasing
to inhabit the trustee area represented by the board member.
I think we've had a situation whereby area actually put us
in a situation where we, we had a change,
but we wouldn't necessarily ask them to
vacate their seat just because the boundary changed.
We actually allowed them to stay in their seat
because they were elected for the duration of their term.
And this government code doesn't cover us under that.
So that was one thing that I thought was, doesn't align
with the policy and approach that we've taken. Um,
So I did check with legal on this one,
and this is very specific.
If someone is, um, a trustee in area one
and they voluntarily move to a different area by law,
they must give up their seat in the
situation that the board took.
The board adjusted the trustee areas
and the sitting trustee gets to finish their term
and then they cannot, they're not eligible to run again.
That's great. I appreciate the clarification.
I would just ask that maybe, I know we can write the
government codes down, but could we add,
add a clarifying statement to it just about
that this pertains to an individual moves out of their area?
That was in the previous one.
It it specifically laid out if it was changed,
it, it specifically laid out.
There was two different lines in the previous one.
Um, since I'm very familiar with what happened on this, um,
that if they move out that, so I,
I don't know, I think they're kind of related.
Um, and it did, it did refer to if a trustee moved out
of their area versus a trustee's area was re revised.
Um, it was on the previous.
I agree. But this is separate.
Um, bylaw, it'd be helpful it fit that it lines
with the other information.
Yeah, I mean I, I would agree with that.
I, I, um, I think we could just add some simple words like
accept in the situation of, um,
and we had the words over here, the
decennial federal census adjustments causing
a trustee to be outta area.
Just so it's very clear. I mean I remember watching the
board when the, the vote happened and,
and everyone was like, well wait, what,
what exactly then happens?
And so then it's just clearly in the policy.
So it could just be a phrase
after that statement so that it's clear that, um,
So for number six,
Correct, number six, you if you cease to inhabit,
you can't be a board member
unless the one situation every 10 years
when we redo them for the census.
Does that, Sorry, makes sense to everybody. So
The next item was item seven
talks about board member absence from the state
for more than 60 days.
And we have this really interesting situation
because we just approved policy by which you can be remote
for some of our meetings
and the case of November, December,
when we have one meeting, each
of those months a board member could actually be absent,
I believe or out of state
and dial into one
of our meetings without actually triggering this.
But the way it's worded, it says
that if you're just outta state for 60 days, you're toast.
So how do we address something where in fact we allow a,
a trustee for whatever reason, if it's family remote
or they're at a conference
and they even, they're representing the district at some
event, they might not be present
and so they could still attend. Um,
But I don't think you're gonna have that
for more than 60 days.
And I mean, I think, I think there is reasons for that
because you're not in the district at that point.
You're not able to meet with constituents.
You're not around.
I I I think we definitely have the,
the reasons you can call in, but that's,
and also that's government code.
Um, trustee chair, have your hand up.
Yeah, I would agree with what you're saying.
That if you're gone out of the state for 60 days
and regardless of the meetings there,
there's a way you could probably call into those,
but you're not available to the con con constituents
that elected you and you're not,
you're not there to do your job.
So that is a problem. So,
Okay, thank you for clarifying that.
I wasn't understanding that it had
to do with meeting constituents.
So I thought it just had to do
with being able to do your duties.
'cause we now have digital world. That
Is just my opinion. That's
not meeting it means nothing. But I mean, uh,
I would agree. I feel like if
you are for some reason out of the state,
which is a very big place for more than 60 days,
you're probably not able
to do your job at that point in time.
Um, or, and there are some exceptions.
So I, I think I'm okay with, with leaving that as is.
The next time I wanna bring up is item, um, 10, which has
to do with board members' refusal
or neglect to file the required oath
within the time prescribed.
Again, they don't file an oath, they take the oath,
they sign it in Alameda. Um,
So we are required to forward
to the registered voters the oath that is signed by each
of you that you take here, uh, before when you're sworn in.
So they request us to submit those signed forms.
I do know though though Harold, uh, from um,
Lozano Will Smith thank you, um,
did make a presentation here a couple years ago
and he was very clear.
The oath we take here means nothing.
The real oath is when you get your paper.
So there seems to be a little disconnect
somewhere on the line.
I will be glad to follow up with them on that.
Um, again, this is just following the government code
and our past practice.
Our current practice, um,
at the last election we had submit those forms
to the county register of voters.
So obviously the, either Harold is a little confused
with the county office of registers is
registrars is confused or something,
but not, not my place to figure that out.
I will follow up with that and follow up with the board
Please. That'd be great if
we can add verbiage
to clarify it, that would be helpful.
Um, so the one thing
that I was also concerned about is in the timeliness to fi
for filing a vacancy, um, I would just love something
that would come attached this that sort
of gives us a better guideline as to, it's all a bunch
of verbiage, but they write six months
and then they say 130 days,
they could say 180 days to a hundred.
It just seems like I need a chart that layer that labels
how all of these things get triggered.
Because I found some areas
where if you were just one day earlier,
it triggers a very different, the approach I mentioned
to you where we would appoint somebody just
outside a certain window,
but they could basically be sworn in on November 6th
and literally be out of office on December 17th.
So it'd be helpful to my opinion,
to chart this since it's new information about like when the
dates start and when they end
for when you're appointing when you're rolling over
to an election, it'd be a lot more handy.
And then we could actually discern, I think
what I was finding were issues where there were overlaps
that didn't make a whole lot of sense. Um,
Can I just clarify? It
says when a vacancy occurs within four months, bef
of the end of a board member's term,
the board shall take no action.
So I don't understand how we would be,
It's four months in. One
day it gets a little weird,
But then we have 60 days to fill it.
So that's still two months,
that's not gonna be like two days.
No, it's in a portion of the document.
It says that when we decide to appoint somebody to
that vacancy, they're sworn in, I believe the day
after the election so they can be
seated in their seat to basically
When we take on that, we appoint somebody
Actually, actually they're appointed at the meeting.
The same time, at the same meeting we vote
that's yeah, immediately.
Immediately in the meeting. Right.
But the, the decision to do that, the four month mark, um,
I believe in the schedule that I read,
it doesn't happen immediately.
You actually have to post, then you have to have interviews.
There was actually a timeline in
the document that talked about that.
So it's not like the per person immediately vacates,
you have a timeline to fall to basically move forward
with the decision to either do an election or appointment.
Well, the, the timeline is the 60 days
from when the vacancy officially occurs, you have
to have completed your process.
The process can, doesn't have to take the full 60 days.
Uh, normally takes a while
'cause we gotta get the questions
together and everything else.
But we can do it in a month if we wanted,
I Feel like, and, and they take effect immediately.
So I, I don't, uh, this is all spelled out in,
in state statute, so I,
I don't even quite understand why we need
to put this in a policy when, you know, we need to say,
see the current state statute
And, and I feel like we've unfortunately had to use this
and we're able three times and Yeah.
And we're able to follow it and, and do that.
So I, I have no problem with the way it's written.
And I think we need to just stick with what state ed code
and is.
It looks like these are all very clearly from ED code. Yeah.
The, the only problem we I see is
that if we adopt something
and the ED code changes,
then there could be a conflict
where we haven't modified our document
to stay up with ed code.
It almost seems better.
We just adopt a policy
that says follow whatever the current ED code
is and be done with it.
But that's, that's another way of handling these. So,
But I think, you know, new ed code would, would trigger us
to revise
New head code on any of our policies,
triggers us to revise it.
So I quickly, I think in your, in your normal practice is
that when there's a vacancy that occurs, you are gonna work
with legal counsel on developing the resolution
that you're gonna bring forward so
that the public understands the timeline and the process.
So ultimately it will be in confirm with our legal counsel
before any action is moved forward.
Thank you for all those clarifications.
Um, one item that I'd like to ask is, um,
I don't believe we've ever done this before
under provisional appointments.
Number two, it states
that we establish a committee consisting of less of corn
of the board to ensure applicants
are eligible for board membership.
Wouldn't we ask the county to basically validate
that the person is registered, you know,
citizen and all that other stuff?
Why would we leave it to two board members to evaluate that?
If I could, uh, jump in here on that one?
Um, 'cause I have the history, um,
we had some vacancies
that happened in the late two thousands
and some vacancies that happened in the early 2010s.
And that is the process we followed.
Uh, turns out that one of the
candidates we brought forward, uh,
it wasn't actually a registered voter.
And, uh, that would, that wasn't discovered
until like the day we were voting on 'em.
So we had to hurry up and, uh, register 'em.
And, and so we decided to scrap
that process 'cause it wasn't working.
So that's, that's why we just went to the,
we'll just all sit as a board
and interview the person, uh,
which we've done the last, last few times.
And that, that seems
to work better than having the little committee
than the, the main board,
But it's just as the committee to ensure they're eligible
and announce the names. Would that be,
So can I ask a, a quick question?
In the process where they would fill out a form saying
that they would like to submit to be considered,
wouldn't we ask them all of those questions anyways?
And we wouldn't need to have a quorum
of the board to review it.
It would just be something that would be submitted.
Well, again, the reason why you would have a resolution
with the process is we would need time to vet to make sure
that they're eligible.
You would not want individuals to come
and the board interviews,
and then you offer them, you choose the candidate
that's not eligible and that's not eligible.
So you wanna make sure they're eligible
before you do the interviews.
Exactly. But what we did find out was that the,
the board is not necessarily the best bunch of people
to be doing that part of it.
It's better to have staff do that.
Fair enough. Yeah.
I mean, staff working with legal
and we would submit the names to the registered voters
and they would actually sign off on it. Absolutely.
And, and, and double checking addresses
and all that good stuff that you have to do that's better
to be done by people that are more in the know than us.
Part-time board members.
That's, that's all, that's why we kind
of have morphed into our new process, which we don't have
to follow, but it's what we've done the last three times.
That's my only comment for this item.
Number two is it puts
that responsibly into a quorum of the board.
And I don't necessarily know the board has access to
that information or would be able to get that information.
So it may be private, I don't know.
Can we say staff
or district staff or a committee
Or you can just do the superintendent or designee.
Okay. Like you, like you have in most of our
Policies. Yeah, yeah. And working
with legal and the county and
Well, yeah. I, I,
all I'm gonna do is submit the, the list to the ca uh,
county register of voters and have them confirm it.
Um, but it's easier than having a committee of the board put
that list together and then submit it.
You, you'd probably hand it off to myself
or Vicki anyways to submit.
Right. And the main thing you're trying
to do is make sure they're,
they're a registered voter, which means they're eligible.
Right. And their address, I mean,
those are really the only two criteria.
And, and that they're 18 years of old.
Uh, I, I believe that's a requirement to sit on the board.
So they'd have to be 18 to be registered voter.
There you go. So do you want, do you want this one to,
since there's a couple of changes, you want
to bring this back for a third reading since we're not
necessarily pressed for time since we are now covered, uh,
with our upcoming election.
Sure. Great.
Okay. We did H one, um, H two, the disposal
of obsolete instructional materials.
I wanna make an ask or request,
I know in the attachment it called out the fact
that there are various ways to dispose of materials.
And I wanna ask if it's possible.
One of the ways you can dispose of it is to offer some
of the materials, the books to members of the community,
families, students, whoever would want them.
And some of the materials, granted they might be out of date
because they don't align with some of our state standards.
They're still really valid. And the reason why I bring this
up is I've been doing a little bit
of research looking at NGSS standards
and I have very large concerns over some of how chemistry
and physics are being taught.
And I noticed that we're actually getting rid of some
of our chemistry syllabus and I would be some of our books
and it'd be great if we would offer that to, um, students
and family members if they want it.
We just supplement what they're learning.
They could do it on their own,
but it would be, if we have the books, I sort
of wish we wouldn't just get rid of them,
that we would offer it to the
committee first before we did that.
So that was my only ask is if we could do that,
Uh, we could have a, a very short window
because I don't want to keep that, those books, um,
in storage, um, before we de uh, dispose of them.
Sure.
That'd be great. So I would just amend the, um, motion
to include, what would you say, one month request.
I don't think there needs to be a motion.
You're just asking if we could have a window.
It doesn't need to actually be in this motion. Perfect.
Thank you. 'cause we could do it now. Okay, great.
Um, we could done it in the past.
Great. Thank you so much. Um, so
that was my only comment on that.
All right. Should we take a, let's vote on that one then.
I guess we need a motion to vote on,
Well, haven't we already skipped
two that we didn't vote on?
Or, or are those coming back
Confused? No, we voted on
H one and we are bringing the next one back.
So I'll move that We approve item H two.
I'll second. Any other motions?
Uh, trustee Pesi. Aye. Everyone else? Aye aye, aye.
Carries unanimously. Okay.
Quickly on item H three, the only reason why I wanted
to pull this is because it's a fairy
and these students are young and
we have a three to one ratio.
And I just thought about all in my brain,
there's all the nightmares and disasters of
what happens when you're on affair with lots
of little people having to put on flotation devices
and you have two hands and three people.
I would love if our student
to adult ratio was better than this,
because I think just, I know that it's like a field trip
and so we think the ratios sound fine,
but to me, being on a ferry with a lot of little people
for the first time, I'm just really nervous.
Should anything go wrong, we don't have enough coverage
to assist each of those students adequately.
And do we know, for example,
that they have enough life preservers on this ferry
for the number of students that we're putting on it?
Um, I would have to look into that. Uh, I'm not sure.
It is a fairly time sensitive item as for approval.
As you can see, the field trip is on September 17th.
But I can, I can do some real quick digging on this one and,
and ensure that there are enough life s on there
for every student on the trip.
That would be great. I know in cases
where instance have happened,
they usually rely on the schools to tell them
that they need to put more on.
Um, but would it also be possible to increase the number
of individuals attending with those students just
to buffer the three to one ratio? That's
Gonna, I I guess I'm struggling.
Three to one is really small.
You're saying a single parent
with three kids shouldn't take their kids on a ferry.
Like three, like three kids in one adult.
Like that's a really small, I mean,
I've been at the zoo watching like 20 kindergartners run
away from me having to like get back.
Please. Like only three of 'em.
I mean, I know it's on a boat, but
Yeah, if you've never been on a
boat's basically gone boat.
I've been on a boat that's flipped.
And so I've actually seen what happens
when you'll have two hands.
Okay. I don't think that's gonna happen, but
I just wanna make a point of it
because if we don't do this
and something happens, we had
the opportunity to make a change.
So that's all.
I will say that the three to one ratio is, um,
is a much tighter ratio than most of our field trips,
including overnight field trips that we attend.
So I do believe that the three to one is a, is a fair,
um, ask from the site.
Any other comments or I'll take a motion. I'll
Make a motion. We approve
H three as written.
I'll second Trustee Piani. Aye. Everyone else?
No. Aye, aye Would No.
Four to one. Yeah.
And the last one I think was JS six.
Yeah. So I brought this, I wanna bring this back
'cause I know there were some changes that were made,
but I'm still very concerned
with the language and how this is written.
There are aspects of recruitment
and selection that have absolutely nothing to do
with diversity or the presumption of diversity being one
of the aspects of how we wanna decide as to who we picked
to work in the district.
I was very concerned with some
of the language in here alluding
to What I didn't understand is
what is missing in terms of our diversity?
And we talk about, we reflect on it in the first paragraph,
racial, ethnic, linguistic
and cultural diversity of the district.
So the first question I have is, is there something wrong
with the diversity of the staff we have currently?
And then that brings with a question of
what exactly is wrong
with the diversity of the staff that we have?
Now, I don't wanna trigger a question
or reaction saying that there's, we need more diversity.
I believe the question is, is if somebody is really well
qualified for the job, all
of these factors should never come into play
in terms of why we hire them.
So my concern is, again, is that we're setting ourselves up
for all it takes is one person who feels
that there was something about themselves
that doesn't fit into some idea about diversity.
Who doesn't get a job offer.
Having this word verbiage in this document
here puts us at risk.
I think we're liable for basically using a lens
that we should not include in hiring.
I understand why you wanna do it,
but I don't think you can actually go out there
and actually act on it.
If you wanna recruit
and you have two people to choose from, you might decide
for a variety of different factors,
but it shouldn't be the reason why you define a
recruitment and selection policy.
It should always be the most highly qualified individual.
Full stop. The other concern I have is when we start
changing our parameters for how we go
and actually recruit, if we start to develop parameters
that look extremely different
with extremely different results, somebody might ask, well,
why did you change your parameters?
And so if you can't prove that your parameters were just
to basically randomly pick whoever's most qualified,
but it was actually directed to target something that had
to do with a different view of diversity,
then I think you run yourself into basically a conflict
with, um, calling out some issue with protected class.
We're not actually allowed to go
after protected classes when we do hiring.
And so I can't support
the document the way it's written now.
I took an oath to the constitution, the state,
and the constitu, the state of California,
and neither one of those would actually support writing in
anything about cherry picking, designing,
essentially establishing like diversity as a goal for
how we select our staff and our teachers.
Trustee chair. Yeah.
Um, on this one, I would would have to, uh, uh, agree with,
uh, trustee Blackman.
I I believe that, um, protected classes,
um, are protected.
And if you have that as a factor in your decision making,
then you're not being equitable.
And it, it, it appears to me
that there are some unequitable, uh, parts of, uh,
this board policy.
And, and I would request that, uh, we take this back
to a labor attorney
and make sure they give it the green light
before we, uh, we vote on it.
So, um, if I, if I can understand the concern, uh,
in our second paragraph, we are very clear.
We very clearly state that we are, uh, choosing,
uh, candidates that demonstrate knowledge, skills,
and confidence and not on any bias, personal preference
or unlawful discrimination.
We also have policies on non-discrimination.
All we're stating in that opening paragraph is that, um,
ultimately we like to move towards a representation
that our staff represents the students
that they work with and teach.
There's no specific goals in there.
We're not saying we want more African
American, uh, teachers.
We're not saying we want more, uh, teachers that, um, um,
come from a specific country.
Uh, all we're saying is we are looking for staff that,
uh, look similar to the students that they teach.
So there's no goals, there's no
specific group we're looking at,
Which I understand. But
there was a, there's been two recent federal cases
that have redefined what discrimination is relative
to those protected classes.
And both the judge basically determined that by virtue
of setting up a direction, which doesn't discriminate,
but basically searches for, promotes, tries to acquire.
In other words, you're not pushing anybody out,
you're trying to attain others
that fit within protected classes.
To provide a greater balance is a form
of discrimination under federal law.
So the world has changed in the last like six months
with regard to how that is reviewed.
We cannot have statements in any of our documents
that talk about diversity based on any protected classes
and hiring based on it.
We need to scratch those statements out
and literally just not state it
because we put ourselves at risk
by actually putting out there something
that the federal courts have already started to redefine.
So in fir in that first paragraph, can you please show me
what is a protected class?
We redefine talked about racial, ethnic, linguistic
and cultural diversity of the district. That's
Not protected class.
All I'm saying is that you use the term racial, right?
That's not a protected class.
So race is not a protected class?
That's correct. Race is not a class,
it is not a protected class.
So I'm not under, I'm not understanding
where you're drawing that.
Anything in that paragraph is a protected class.
Okay. I guess we have different views of
what protected classes are.
Then.
Has our legal department, has this been run through legal?
Do we run all of these?
I regularly meet with legal counsel
and review board policies
and ars in addition to, um,
using CSBA language as a recommendation.
Was the attorney a specific labor attorney
specializing in
Labor? The attorney that I
meet with regularly, yes.
Is our primary labor attorney from Lozano Smith.
That's my main contact.
All right. Does someone wanna make
a motion on this at this point?
Anyone?
Which one? You, we will,
We will bring it back.
Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, I move.
We approve PP
4, 1, 1, 1, 4, 2, 1, 1, 4, 3, 1, 1.
As it is written,
I'll second. And,
And, and if I could just point out the protected classes
or race, color, religion, sex, gender, gender identity,
sexual orientation, marital status, medical conditions,
national origin, ancestry, disability, genetic information.
And so race.
When you say racial is a protected class,
and I'm gonna have to vote now on this,
Uh, can I ask a question?
Was this policy, uh, pattern after CSBA?
Absolutely. Majority. Okay. Thank you.
All righty. Trustee,
I'm gonna call for a vote unless we have another motion.
Trustee Pesi. Aye. Everyone else? Aye.
No, no. Aye, aye. Carries three to two.
I think that was all
of consent that got pulled, is that correct?
Okay. There are no written reports.
Um, is there anything for future agendas,
trustee Blackman?
Um, so we heard today from one
of the public comments about safety in our school district.
I know we have a policy, but it'd be nice
to have an update in terms of how our communication system
is going out relative to incidents.
Um, that was the first.
The next one is the, um, syllabus
or all over the map in terms of both our grading
and other policies from teacher to teacher
and I believe from also site to site.
So it'd be great if we could have some sort of action
by staff to try to remedy the problems
that are have occurred in the last couple
weeks across all sites.
The last one is, I believe we need
to have the athletic department come back to present
how they're addressing athletic
needs for each of the groups.
Also, because I've received questions about certain groups,
teams at certain schools are not being treated the same
as other teams with regard to support and funding.
And I wanna clear the air on that.
And so it'd be great if you could bring back a presentation
on athletics across, especially at the high school level,
uh, across those, our high school sites to ensure
that in fact, it's not a comparison between the sites.
I just wanna make sure that all
of the teams everywhere are getting
what they need and we're supporting them.
Thank you very much.
Are there any other things that we can,
I'll follow up with you on some things.
We can figure out what would be an agenda item
and what would be something that would be more of a
discussion with staff.
Um, next up.
Um, and I don't think there's any changes
to the governance calendar from last time we reviewed.
Um, and then trustee reports. Trustee Speck.
Um, yes. Uh, we had a safety committee meeting, um,
I don't know, a week and a half ago.
And, um, we spent a fair amount
of time talking about the workplace
violence prevention plan.
Um, so thank you to Heather.
Um, a lot of work from her and her staff.
This is specifically for our employees in a legal, um, thing
that, um, those of us in the work force have probably seen
as well because, um, it's not just an education thing,
but, um, something that, uh, we've,
at least I know I've taken training at work, um,
for workplace violence, um, mandated by the state.
Um, also talked about, um,
night lock window coverings have been
completed on all the facilities.
Um, the, the cameras at Wells
and Fallon are up and operational.
Um, and then we spent some time talking about
traffic and parking issues.
Um, which, uh, those of you
that read the Friday email, um, from Mr.
Funk, he addressed, um, based off of, um, some
of the discussions that we had, um, in the,
um, safety committee meeting.
Um, and certainly an issue I know
that we've all experienced across
pretty much all of our sites.
Um, and just continue to ask parents
to please drive respectfully.
Um, it is your kids
and all of our kids at these schools, um,
and we just don't want anything happening to them.
Um, and then last week I went
to the Dublin High back to school night.
So it was great to see so many parents there, um,
and to see, um, all the great things our teachers are doing
and, um, excited for the school year.
Thank you.
I thank you. And make this as brief as I can.
So, um, attended the budget committee meeting
as our first committee meeting of the year.
So I appreciate the work of, um,
assistant superintendent Chris Hobbs and kicking that off
and providing information, uh, for,
I know it was at the same time
as I think DHS is back to school nights.
So I hope that if you are on the committee,
you will please get in touch with Mr. Hobbs
and, um, request some of the information.
'cause it is really important to have your feedback
before the next, or some effort of your feedback
before the next meeting in October.
Um, I also attended Emerald, um, highs back to school night,
which was really informative,
but obviously lots of issues with regard to syllabus.
I also attended their grand opening,
which was smashingly huge success.
I wanna thank both Superintendent Rojas,
assistant superintendent, Veles, as well as the PFSO
and all the volunteers, student
and parent who actually helped make it a huge success.
It was incredibly well intended.
Lots of activities, food
and all the clubs had a great way to showcase
what they were gonna offer students for the year.
So that was wonderful. And um, I'm just mentioning that, um,
after attending the Alam County Fair, that I intend
to reach out to all the students who placed
and were received awards.
Uh, just basically,
I understand our school district doesn't always provide
recognition, but I think it would be behoove us on the board
to actually reach out any event, whether it's softball team
or otherwise, that when we have our students placed,
whether the county or state level that we acknowledge them.
So if we're not gonna do it through the district,
then I intend to do it individually to each of the students
who participated and we're awarded.
Thank you very much.
No report. Okay.
Uh, attendance, a budget committee meeting.
And I just wanna welcome a new group of parents,
student representatives to that committee.
And they get, uh, to start the hard work of, uh,
discussing next year's budget and how to balance it.
And I also had a zoom call for the tech committee.
And on top of the AI policy, we are
bringing forth the cell phone use policy,
which has been in the news recently where
the governor is encouraging schools to, uh,
address cell phone use during, during class time.
So it'll be interesting to see what we come forth with.
Um, I have an idea what they are,
but we'll let, uh, we'll let the policy work as itself out
and get sent to DTA for, uh, feedback
and the teachers before we bring it forth.
And that's all I have.
All I could not make, I could not make the EHS back
to school night 'cause dropping my son off at college.
Thank you.
Yes, we were both, both gone last week.
Um, I forgot to mention last time over the summer
that I attended the, um, graduation for our students
who finished their diploma over summer
school and made up their credits.
And I just wanna give a congratulations to them.
And a shout out to our staff at the high school
during summer school who really worked
to help get those kids over the line, um,
and get that, that high school diploma, um,
and, and recognize them.
And we, we, we played pomp and circumstance on the phone
and, and, you know,
had a whole ceremony for 'em and it was really nice.
Um, and I really appreciate the effort that went into that.
Um, and not just like, oh, you're, you know,
five credits away, but we're gonna
get you gonna get you there.
So really appreciate that. Um,
I did just barely make it back in time for a double
and high back to school night.
Um, I would say I was actually noticing quite a consistency
in, in the syllabus I saw across my daughter's classes.
Um, and, and really noticed, you know,
very specific policies.
I, I think I look at them all a little differently now.
Um, and so just, um, compliments to the,
the Dublin High students who were all helping me.
I she had a period off 'cause the teacher was still on leave
and so everyone kept wanting to help me get
to class and I'm like, I'm good.
I know where I'm going. But they, there was a lot
of leadership and FMP kiddos out there helping
everyone, um, get there.
Um, and so that was a great night. A lot of good energy.
Um, it's always nice to,
to get into the classrooms and see that.
So, um, and that is, it's, um, for me tonight.
Superintendent.
Yeah, at the last board meeting,
there were two public comments, uh, with concerns around,
uh, traffic, uh, issues, pedestrian issues,
bike rack issues, and lighting issues at
Emerald High School.
That board meeting was on a Tuesday.
I met with staff on a Friday.
Um, obviously we can't control poor driving, uh, in the
outside of the school parking lot.
That's why we did an update in our Friday update
to reminding people of how important it's
to follow proper traffic, uh, rules and procedures.
Um, we are adjusting the signs, uh, so that people
that are crossing the street directly into Emerald will know
exactly where the crosswalk is in the parking lot.
That crosswalk is gonna be elevated with a new, uh, instead
of it being painted white, it's gonna be painted yellow.
It also will have reflectors on those so
that it stands out at night.
Um, they've added several bike
racks to the front of the school.
When the school is complete.
They will have nine different locations for bike racks
that will accommodate over 300 bicycles.
Um, but they're gonna add more immediately
because some of those areas are under construction.
Um, and then when it comes to the lighting, uh,
we are adjusting the lighting.
So they go off, uh, at a certain hour between 11
and 12 when the last custodian leaves
and then coming, uh, back on an hour before school starts.
Uh, or an hour,
approximately six o'clock when we have staff that come on campus.
Uh, so they'll no longer be on all night long.
I did attempt to return, um, the two phone calls to provide
that update and both those numbers were disconnected,
so I was not able to to reach them.
So that's why I'm making this public statement.
Um, and anything else?
Oh, uh, in the month of September, uh,
assistant superintendent, uh, Chris Hobbs
and I will be, uh, making the rounds.
Uh, we'll be having two public, um, uh,
conversations around our budget.
One at Dublin High, one at Emerald High,
and then we'll also do one virtually.
So there'll be three sessions to get, uh, feedback, uh, on
how to address our structural deficit.
Uh, also this fall I will be, uh, putting together, um,
uh, community conversations
around developing a graduate profile.
Uh, and that will be done at all the secondary, uh, schools,
with the feeder schools invited, uh, to begin
that conversation also.
So a lot of community engagement, uh, in the coming months.
That's all I have for tonight.
All righty. Um, any
comments on board meeting, evaluation?
Otherwise, I will go ahead and adjourn the meeting.
The, the, um, date
for their next meeting is not correct on here it is
September 10th, 2024.
So just in case anyone is wondering what that is,
um, we'll do that.
Otherwise I'll take a motion to Yeah, I'll move that.
We adjourn the meeting. I'll second Ani. Aye.
Everyone else? Aye, aye, aye.
We are adjourned until September 10th. See you then.
Thank you.